{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Charter-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red31\green31\blue31;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c16078\c16078\c16078;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}
{\list\listtemplateid11\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1001\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid11}
{\list\listtemplateid12\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1101\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid12}
{\list\listtemplateid13\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1201\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid13}
{\list\listtemplateid14\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1301\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid14}
{\list\listtemplateid15\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1401\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid15}
{\list\listtemplateid16\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1501\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid16}
{\list\listtemplateid17\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1601\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid17}
{\list\listtemplateid18\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1701\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid18}
{\list\listtemplateid19\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1801\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid19}
{\list\listtemplateid20\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1901\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid20}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid11\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid12\listoverridecount0\ls12}{\listoverride\listid13\listoverridecount0\ls13}{\listoverride\listid14\listoverridecount0\ls14}{\listoverride\listid15\listoverridecount0\ls15}{\listoverride\listid16\listoverridecount0\ls16}{\listoverride\listid17\listoverridecount0\ls17}{\listoverride\listid18\listoverridecount0\ls18}{\listoverride\listid19\listoverridecount0\ls19}{\listoverride\listid20\listoverridecount0\ls20}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 2.4.1\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/ralf-martin-soe-1a7ba829/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ralf-Martin Soe}}, Founding Director of Smart-City Center of Excellence, TalTech University, 17th June 2020\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 1.\'a0Can you tell me some words about your personal background, and how did you came into this actual position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am a researcher working in smart-city for the last 6 years. PhD first, now director of research and innovation lab in TalTech, under the ministry of economics and communication. We work on the topics of mobility, energy, and innovation pilots. We have one robot bus in a testing phase, open for everybody through the living lab device. Generally collaborators comes with an interest for our e-government and then they stay for our digital transformation programs.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The lab has been created by my own initiative, we compete in European Founding 5 years ago, went through several evaluations and received seed founds last year. We are operational since December 2019, but started to develop our business plan from 2016. The Estonian government came in 2020.\
2. What\'92s your main goal to achieve and what is your strategy for it?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our end goal is doing research and development for cities, helping them to introduce new technologies, to be more inclusive. We work on solving urbanization issues, closely with cities but mainly doing actual R&D. We look for partnering with cities to demonstrate our solutions, inside and outside of Estonia. Operationally, we want to grow and have a sustainable business model. We gather many researchers from different universities at the Smart-City Center of Excellence. Our Lab aim to provide the best research on this topic. We open competitions for external people to be linked, and also collaborate with cities in several contexts. We are founding some research activities and involve the cities in the process.\
3. What kind of relationships do you have with other kind of stakeholders (public, private, civil society and academics) ? Who are your major supporters, investors ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We compete for receiving founds for research and we are quite good at it. We managed to be founded by European Union and Estonian Government.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have quite good connections with ICT companies, strong partnerships with local companies too, and with some historic partners from Finland.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for the civil society side, we are quite well connected with the smart-city lab from Tartu and other non-profit organizations on this topic. Also with the association of architects.\
4. Any specific product or tech you want to talk about ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Not specifically : we are very engaged in data platforms for and between cities. We are not tech-driven but rather research and urban-challenge driven, so we can help cities on their own issues.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our Urban OS is an open platform that we continue to work on.\
5. Sometimes the population can fall into digital innovation skepticism, what is your point of view on it ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There are obviously conflicts between business, government and academia. We are not specialized in analyzing it and we have not looked into it specifically. For my point of view, I can say that some cities are more open to innovation than others, that is true. Tallinn for example is allowing companies to test innovation in a more liberal way. Helsinki has been more restrictive and look for something more stable before deployment. Both position gives better success in each case.\
6. You are at the origin of the creation of Finest Twins, can you tell me more about the Twin Smart-City initiative between Helsinki and Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This collaboration comes first to ease the mobility between cross border cities. It is important to see how the services can be cross-border as well. The people which travel in both cities should have more non-cash systems for parking or tickets that work in the two cities. Actually, with the digitalization of services, it gets more complex for tourists and citizens to move from one city to another one and get access to services, while it should be the contrary. Finest Twins aims to integrate the IT systems in a cross border context.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The Sub-Sea tunnel is not directly linked to Finest Twins, even if the have had common visibility. Some technical and financial analysis have been done but there are currently a few arguments in favor of this project.\
7. Smart-City is often considered as an expert concept, How do you reach civil engagement on this topic ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have an open approach, we communicate, we organize talks and we report what kind of activities and pilots we are working on. This constitutes our approach to the local communities. We organize several events like seminars, workshops where every one can join. We try to include all people interested in Smart-City.\
8. Have you ever used any open platform for citizen engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There are very little research on decision-making and smart-governance concepts. This process usually never ends and we do not know where to start. The participation of citizens to open platforms is very low in general. But if there are very critical issues, the people can participate punctually.\
=> he likes my approach of comparative studies, not based on desk research but jumping for real in my territories. It is very great, it gives a very good foundation to my PhD.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 2.4.2\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/yannicklemoullec/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Yannick Le Moullec}}, Professor at Tallinn University of Technology, 24th June 2020\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell me some words about your personal background, and how did you came into this actual position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am professor at TalTech for 6 and half years. I worked almost 10 years in Aalborg University in Denmark before. When my contract ended there, a job opportunity was opened in Tallinn and so I came in 2013. Estonia were even less famous than what it is nowadays. I came for 2 years initially, but it continued. I am related to the Thomas Johann Department of Electronics, from the School of IT. We work on developing tech : IoT, sensors, on the communicating aspects, wireless, radio and networks. I am not the most engaged on the software side, but some of my colleagues do. For example, we started a project called 5G-routes, we are experimenting a 5G corridor between Helsinki and Riga, to test future applications on roads, maritime, trains, etc. We test the continuity of services, etc.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Interesting to be able to talk about the 5G. We can see a lot of criticism on social networks. What\'92s your point of view about that ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Yes indeed, in Estonia too we have had alerts on the 5G risks for human and environment. From my point of view and from what I can read from my research fellows, there is no reason to be afraid. The 5G frequencies are obviously higher than the 3G and 4G, but they are still classic radio frequencies. Furthermore, the topology of the networks are based on smaller cells, less powerful in terms of emission that what we had until now. So of course we will have more antennas but they will send less powerful signals.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you engage civil society and non-academics in your research ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Not so much for the moment, but this goal is part of the criteria for evaluation of teaching and research staff, and the university policy. In the last few years, we published 3 mainstream articles in mass media to explain our work and tell the population how our developments can be useful to society.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have another project financed by the European Union Interreg Program, regarding the lightening of public spaces. We are part of a network of pilot cities to replace the current city lightening with LED-based technology. The objective is not only smart-tech : it also reaches the environmental aspects, social and economic ones. We work with the city of Tallinn to make it a pilot. A great survey has been done across Tallinn population to understand how the people use the different parks of the city. Tallinn \'93green belt\'94 is a visible series of parks areas around the old town and we wanted to understand how to make it more user-friendly. The results have been interesting and now we are starting a first on-site experiment in Kanuti Garden, currently under call for tender.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Who finances your researches ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Generally speaking, academic staff in Estonia are not public servant as can be the case in some other countries. In addition to the base funding that the university receives, we also depend a lot on projects, or when the government launch tenders, which are very competitive. In addition to Estonian national funding, we are also through the European Union on projects. We also do applied research in collaboration with the industry. These agreements between academic and private sector are done on the base of pre-existing contacts. For example, the applied research financing tool\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.etag.ee/en/funding/applied-research-funding/23917-2/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Nutikas}}\'a0aims to implement the Estonian smart-specialization strategy across the whole Europe with other rograms.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In spite of these ways to obtain funds, the relative insufficiency of public financing creates a certain precariousness for researchers and perceived lack of attractiveness. It is well known that in some domains, it is quite hard to enroll Estonian PhD students as the conditions in the industry can be more attractive.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 At a global scale, private companies like the GAFAM have huge financing power comparing to universities of small and medium size. As a result, more and more research and development is made in the private sector companies, not anymore at the university.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Is there anything specific you would expect from the City of Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A self-driving electric minibus has been developed mainly at TalTech. The project of Smart-Campus which aimed to become an open laboratory of tech, impulsed by the 5G network existing on the campus, has been driven by high level executives of the university, in collaboration with intermediaries of each departments. It has been quite challenging to receive funds but now we expect that this self-driving bus can be a way to open a door for other in-situ experiements.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 You have had a change in the government at the last national elections. Does it have an effect on your research ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There is always a delay between what happens at a political level and the academic research. For the moment nothing have changed significantly, as far as I am concerned. The presidential election do not plays a significant role in universities intern guide lines. But this election has been interesting in regard of political processes : Estonia has a system a Great Elective, not a universal voting system and none of the 3 candidates received a victory. Somewhat unusually, Kaljulaid was elected president only after other candidates could not be elected in three rounds of voting an electoral college consisting of members of Parliament and representatives of local governments of Estonia. So the government designated a president, an official head of the state, even if the prime minister has a more important role for the Estonian politic. But some conservatives entered in the Estonian parliament and tends to slow the liberal startup mindset it has been before. Something else is that Estonia has one of the highest number of startups per capita of Europe, and it maybe went to a maximum critical rate. Many academics have their own company or startup too, but it appears that often it is rather dormant or remain very small and has no big achievements.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How about the Russian-Estonian relationships in Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We can read all and its contrary on this topic. From my point of view, it depends a lot on generations : the fracture between East and West culture has been bridged for new generations. According to some surveys, it appears that most of Russian-Speaking Estonians are happier to live in Estonia rather than what it could be to live in Russia. The quality of life, security, openness of opinions. They do not have the willingness to influence Estonia to make it more Russian, and this topic is serious enough for the Estonian TV to have launched a Russia-speaking channel to balance the influence of Russian TV in Estonia.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.4\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/susanne-durst-13b733a/$"}}{\fldrslt \ul Suzanne Durst}}, Professor at TalTech, 25th June 2020\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell some words about your personal background, and how did you came into this actual position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I define myself as an outlier in terms of background: I originally come from Germany. I am a trained import-export clerk but wasn\'92t interested in working in this profession. So I started to study psychology, sociology and political science with a minor in economics. I was very interested in cultural sociology. I did all this until my pre-diploma. Then I switched to the study of business administration with a major in Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and completed it with a Diploma. In 2000, during the first wave of IT and e-Commerce, I had an IT consultant activity with a focus on digitalization of the insurance. I was involved in a e-commerce project of a platform for used cars.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I spent some time doing that but had the feeling I should continue with my studies. I moved to Sweden for family reasons, and specialized myself with a master degree in Finance. As the job market in Sweden was (and still is) very small and foreigners with no specific expertise did not have so much opportunities at that period of time, thus I went back to Germany and assumed positions in finance and controlling. Yet my hunger for more academic studies was still there. As I was working full time, I started looking for a PhD that could be done remotely, and got me in touch with University of Liechtenstein that run cooperative doctorates. They offered me a position as a project member in an Interreg project aimed at developing a marketing and branding strategy for the Alpine Space. In addition to this job I pursued my PhD studies (I was enrolled as a PhD student at a University in Paris) I stayed there and moved up from this position to be one of an assistant professor. During that time, I had the chance to spend longer periods at Universities in Ferrara and Helsinki.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I also kept my contacts with the Swedish University I earned my Master degree from and came finally back to Sweden to start a position as a senior lecturer in business administration with a focus on Marketing in 2014 and in 2018 I became a full professor. During this period, I spent some time at a university of Lima.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In 2019, I learned that the TalTech university was looking for a full-time professors in management. I applied and got the job. All in one, I can say that I am a European product of academia.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your main focus right now, and what is your strategy ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In my PhD studies I researched the role of intangible assets in business transfers of small and medium-sized enterprises taking the perspective of buyers. I attended to a maximum of scientific conferences to meet people and spread my ideas with people working in similar fields to check if I had something of interest for the research community.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am still working with many of those people I met in those days, we followed ourselves all this time. I like to work with people I can have fun with but also do hard work with. I look for the matching chemistry.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing in terms of network building and stakeholder engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In terms of stakeholders from a research point of view, for any research project, I am interested in having discussions with people from other disciplines. Of course, this can take more time to start because we need to understand each other\'92s language and vocabulary, but my conviction is that it increases the impact of research. I am very much into keeping the level of re-inventing the wheel at the minimum, by working together with people from different disciplines and professions this can somewhat be reduced.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Given my background, I try to stay very close to the business world too.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationships do you have with other kind of stakeholders (public, private, civil society and academics) ? Who are your major supporters, investors ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Using my relational capital developed over the years, and that I am continuously developing further, I try to find supporters and investors for my academic research.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For example, a friend of mine works at the Chamber of Commerce, so even if I just arrived in Tallinn, through her it has been very easy to get in touch with entrepreneurs willing to participate in a COVID-19 related study.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 having been a foreigner in many different countries, I have learned that you need this local door openers.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you expect for something from the city side that could help make a step further in your research?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 To address the societal challenges ahead (e.g. transportation, energy, the consequences of COVID-19), online and offline forums need to be there that bring together many stakeholders (e.g. ordinary citizens, students, researchers, policy makers, the business side, visitors of Tallinn/Estonia) as possible. I consider this key for successful transformations and innovations, particular for a country as small as Estonia; it will also help my ongoing and forthcoming studies.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.5\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/angelosorbello/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Angelo Sorbello}}, CEO of astrogrowth, Italian e-resident. 25th June 2020.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell some words about your personal experience, and why did you took the e-residency ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 My experience tells about how things do not work so well in some places where everything was working very well some decades ago. Italy used to be a great spot to live and make business. Now it is not anymore.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I was a nerd making business very young, I starting a blog about video games at 13 years old. By looking how to get traffic on my website, with no money to pay for advertisement, I learned SEO. At 15 years old, I was ranked as the first blog for video games in Italy. At that time I have been contacted by Microsoft and other big companies. It gave me the feeling that it was possible to live a different life style. I went to a business school after high-school. All my friends wanted to be bankers or consultant. As for me, following my earlier personal experiences I wanted to become a full time entrepreneur, to be free, and I start back doing stuff online. I came in Estonia first for an Erasmus program. I was always attracted by the Nordic culture and the contrast with Sicilia where I am from. My next websites didn\'92t manage to go global in despite of my attempts : at a global level, USA is much more attractive to make views and reach traffic and it is very hard to compete. But I learned more about startups and did some consultancy work too. Now I have this software comparison site which makes quite good results in terms of visitors per month. I don\'92t think to be smarter than others, but I work a lot. I have degrees in different universities, but I wished to have my office in Italy and live here. The main problem is that the bureaucracy is crazy and the public offices do not work anymore. I had a client that had to pay me but I couldn\'92t do the procedure to get the money from abroad. In the public office, no one responded me. I have had to use a friend of my father to have a response, which is so disappointing : it is needed to have a personal relationship inside the public administration to make it work. I finally receive an answer that was not positive : in order to get my money, I needed to wait more time and pay an extra fee. so I took the e-residency and moved my company on the Estonian e-State services. I was much more easy to do it this way.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you have any relationships with startups in Estonia?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Not really, the ecosystem is very tech-oriented there. I am not in this kind of business.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you come back in Tallinn sometimes ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Not often : the plane connection is not direct and it makes it hard to come. In march I went back for the first time in the last 4 years.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Anything else you would like to tell about your e-resident experience ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The e-residency branding is very good, but I have lived most of my time in Lisbon, Portugal, those last years. And the last time I came to Tallinn, I realized how Portugal succeed in attracting digital nomads. They do a better job in terms of inclusion, which is probably cultural. In two weeks in Lisbon, I did more friends than all my stay in Tallinn. I have lived in Warsaw, Milan, Germany, Tallinn\'85 Finally in Tallinn there are not so much events to include foreigners. I love the Nordic culture and the Estonian one, but I think they could benefit a lot of making their ecosystem more inclusive.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 It has been hard with the bank too : TransferWise took a long time to validate my account. On the official website of e-residency, they say you can use a Paypal account for your business, but once you subscribe Paypal and reach a certain amount of income, you are banned. At this moment, the e-residency became not anymore interesting for me. I keep thinking that the e-residency is a awesome thing, to prove the world how could be our future on its best way. But it seems that the world is not ready for it. And the FinTech are not really ready neither. The taxation of a digital nomad is not clear neither : the administrations do not know how to deal with it.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.6\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/scottcdodson/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Scott Dodson}}, Chief Marketing Officer at Hero Gaming, 26th June 2020\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell a few words about your personal background and career ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I\'92m from US, I move to Seattle after university. I was always interested in games but never believed I could make a career out of it. So I started with marketing and producing TV commercial videos. I have been inspired by friends and launched a startup in 2006 in game industry and made money. At that time there were no so much support or resources for startups. So I learned a lot by myself. When I sold it I did some money and learned from my mistakes. I started another company that didn\'92t work. Another one on FinTech, to make money by playing games. I continued startups with Techstars in 2011 in Seatlle and then I move to London in 2013. I was mentoring at Techstars and worked for a tech company. In 2015, a company was looking for a head of product in Tallinn, and this is how I moved here. I developed the free product to the paid product, and then took the charge of growth in 2017.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your main goal at this time and what is your strategy to achieve it ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have a lot to grow. I use a framework of growth loop model. Whatever action the customer does in interaction with our product, I use the result to reinvest the value of it in a growth objective. The best strategy to grow is that each time a person have a good experience with your product, he will tell friends, and so they will become customers.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The content marketing approach can attract more people too. It is needed to understanding all those loops, quantitative and qualitative and find which one prioritize on your road map.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationships do you have with other kind of stakeholders (public, private, civil society and academics) ? Who are your major supporters, investors ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are a private company. We successfully raised seed money and a first venture round at 10M$ in 2014. Then a second series at 15M$ in 2016, in two times. It is a concentrate mix of angels, including young talents, a couple of VCs, and some locals : Tera Ventures, a VC out of Finland called Inventure, and also a japanese corporation.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 In terms of Gaming, is their anything you would like to suggest to Tallinn city to make it more friendly for users ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Well, I used to be in the top 10 of gamification guru. I am a big fan of it and the products link lightly to gamify. But I prefer to talk about motivational design, which is more critical for anything.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The startups have simple needs, like talent acquisition. Tallinn have improved in that regard : it was hard to get a work permit at the beginning. The infrastructure was not set up very well, it is very better now, and it helps. We hire remote workers all over Europe and it is a very chance to help people live in their cities. As for me, I was wroking in london for my first company and have been very interested to join Tallinn. I liked it since I discovered that the startup ecosystem is very dense and performative. They have a sort of Silicon Valley mindset : people help each other to grow startups and it creates a mentality and an ecosystem. I have seen the same in Tallinn : Skype has create a huge pool. And then you can\'92t spend so much money around here, a nice house is half a million. So the wealthiest people invest in supporting more companies. The tax rate is very attractive, the quality of live, the free public transportation, a cheap internet, the city is doing a very good job. They could do more in terms of discrimination to attract more talents. Culturally they are kind of suspicious on foreigners and they could have much better results if they were more open.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is it needed to develop a startup city ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Talents, access to capital, infrastructure and technical connectivity, communication, places to live\'85 You need a big enough pool to scale. The structures already exist, as well as the government attitude. Of course the last election didn\'92t help them : the conservative/xenophobic party. You need more open people to bring here more talents. It probably works with the educational system. And entrepreneurial involvement in that educational system, for people to see that this is the way to raise.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But of course, this mistrust in startups has an explanation : there are 2 categories of economy here : the people in tech who make money and spend, and the non-tech people that sell services to tech people but make less money. And there is a gap in between those two categories. So it is needed to invest the money from tech startups in the local community for everyone to understand the benefit of this economy. If not, the situation is not sustainable and will create breach between the people. I can imagine that more animosity between the people have been raising those last years, frustration, jealousy.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.7\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/ivoremmelg/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ivo Remmelg}}, Angel investor, Venture Partner at Superherocapital.com, 26th June 2020\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell some words about your personal background, and how did you came into this actual position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am an entrepreneur, I have participated and founded many companies. I started to invest in startups in 2000, all quite small companies (under 100 employees) and I sold my shares of the last one in 2017. Now I have 41 companies in portfollio with 10 direct investment through incubators program. I am mentoring at Startup Wise Guys, and in Technopol.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How do you support startups apart of investing ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Some founders do not have the experience of managing people, or to deal with the corporate governance. I have the experience and help to avoid crucial errors. I help with the strategy too : some young startups do typical errors: not enough focus, too many things at the same time.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What has been the public sector role in building this startup ecosystem ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The government has tried to keep the startup ecosystem thin. They help, they engage in business and so this is how they get money from it. All book keeping, taxes and business establishment are very easy to do remotely in Estonia, so this has helped a lot for the Estonian state to attract and keep all these startups. Then of course the money laundry issue and the preference to know customers has made more difficult if you are not in Tallinn to open a bank account.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 When they were under soviet rule, they had nothing so they started from scratch in the 90\'92s. This is always easier than to have a huge and costly legal system like old democracies. Estonia had an open mind to all what came from western Europe and US, which helped a lot to take the good decisions at that time. They do not have that much of one-man rule. It is rather the young leaders which create good working environment and motivate people. This make programmers, engineers, workers much more effective, because using their all potential, taking initiatives. They do not have capital accumulation or knowledge accumulation here, but it is changing quite fast : the students which go study abroad, come back with know-how and good stuff to implement from abroad.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Estonia became one of the most shining place in Eastern Europe for new enterprises and new economy. They have the most unicorn per capita (5 to 6 for 1,5 million people) and this helps to make a good environment for business. A lot of development happens here : they do code, then sales and management can be incorporate somewhere else. Because they have to scale outside by the way, it is somehow better to have the selling department abroad. The local sandbox is good here, and then jump in the real market abroad. When a company is founded in France or Germany, there are not so much English-speaking inside, and they rather stay on a local market scale which is enough.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What else makes Estonia a great launchpad for startups ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Most help from the government is that they have kept all these taxing and the corporate governance so easy that you can keep growing a business and do your own accountancy, tax payment by yourself. You do not need someone else because the legal environment is not complex. They also made development founds and started to invest in startups. They didn\'92t had any foreign founds at the beginning and so the government invested money in good startups. It was always co-investment founds with local angels, but this helped a lot to start the ecosystem. Now it is re-organized, they do not invest anymore, and play like limited partners. They still have an incubator with good mentors. The City if Tallinn is also part of Technopol, where they are helping really young companies with mentoring and office base. There is also an Estonian Investment Agency and a development agency from the government called Enterprise Estonia with some financing programs.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you expect anything else from Tallinn city ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Startups and entrepreneurs are a minority over the overall population. So most of the countries in the world pushes on more taxes and result in creating a bad environment for startups. The Estonian balance is good.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you invest in some Smart-City or Urban Innovation solution ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Not so much. My main business area is B2B : companies attacking old industries with new solutions that bring 2/3 times more effectiveness.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.8\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/siim-lepik-9790b238/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Siim Lepik}}, Manager at Research in Estonia, 26th June 2020\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your background, and how did you came into this position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I have a bachelor in advertising from Tallinn University and a master degree in communication management from the University of Tartu. I did mostly marketing and communication jobs. The Estonian Science Council is managed by the public sector Estonian Research Council which depends on the Minister of Education and Research, but the funds come from European Union until 2022. Then we will have to find other resources or programs. The council officially started in 2012 with the main goal to marketize of Estonian Science and to make it more visible internationally. They target more researchers to come in Estonia, as they do with other brands like study in Estonia, work in Estonia, etc.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 They have this small part related to research with an identity building mission and promoting something else than startup only. Estonia has a world-class science and it has to be known too.\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are your main goal and how to you achieve it ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our main activity is to empower science communication people in Estonia or under universities. We train them to make their job better, we provide contacts with science journalists and with other countries. We set up the web page with more info on Estonian institutions, a news feed and the great stuff that have been done in Estonia so far.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Estonian Research Council help researchers to get funds from Estonia or from Europe, they do not invest in research directly. They do not manage the funds neither, but the main problem to address is that the private sector do not put money or not enough into non-physical property. This is a big goal for Estonia in the years to come : increase private sector funds and cooperation between companies and researchers.\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you have any relationships with other kind of stakeholders ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have connections with non-profit organizations, and also private businesses. We can help to get better evaluation from the minister of education and research. no matter where they come from. We invite different Estonian companies to go to fairs together under the brand \'93Enterprise Estonia\'94, we are all partners in a way, so we usually do pretty much cooperation with different branches of government.\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you communicate on Tallinn Smart-City research ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We do not target Tallinn specifically.We do not have separate projects but of course the researchers have some projects related to smart-city. We are giving some grants to researchers who work on some projects. We have tried to help researchers to go to international fairs too, like the smart-city expo in Barcelona. We called researchers to propose a founding of travel expanses if they wished to participate. We try to promote some solutions for smart-city that are research related, like smart solutions for pedestrian stripes like we recently promoted.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.9\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/liisiorg/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Liisi Org}}, Startup Community Development Manager and\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/merilin-lukk-32227a57/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Merilin Lukk}}, Startup Visa Project Lead at Startup Estonia, 29th June\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is your personal background and how did you joined Startup Estonia ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Liisi :\'a0My main background experience was tech in NY where I spent 1 and half year. Then I have been working in a startup. I was organizing the Startup Week Tallinn and have been approached like that. Now I am working for 1,5 year in Startup Estonia. I am taking care of the startup community. We have a wide network in startups and startuping the organisations. We provide incubators, accelerators, VC founds, we manage 100 organizations and do a lot of projects with them. We also provide a lot of offers to startups : pitching competitions, opportunities to go abroad.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Merilin :\'a0I was project manager in Garage 48, I have been organizing hackathons in Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Georgia and then worked on Estonia-Eastern partnerships. We have been running the startup visa program, launched in 2017 to help Estonian startup to bring their investors and partners of outside EU.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is the main goal you want to achieve ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Startup Estonia were launched in 2015. Our main goal is to boost and develop Startups in Estonia by providing events and support, and a legislative adaptation to startup success.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing as for network building and community engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are a public organization, depending on the Ministry of Economy and Communication. We operate under Credex, a financial institution. We have a good trust with the community of startups. We receive all the data and analysis from the community and from the Ministry of the Economy, so we can make a bridge in between those two worlds. The startup ecosystem in Tallinn is growing 30% per year. In a few years, we came to 1000 startups. We have a public procurement to launch initiatives, an accelerator, and incubators programs. We also launch projects for kids and young people, a lot of very different things. We are not offering money directly, we offer databases, and have offered money to start a SuperAngel VC which is now operating on this own.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationships do you have with other kind of stakeholders (public, private, civil society and academics) ? Who are your major supporters, investors ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Startup Estonia is a connector between government and startups. We have a lot of contact in the academic field too, with local governments and regional institutions. We work with some of civil movements by time to time, and have contacts with investors. The investors are not hard to reach., this is one of the key advantages. Estonian startup scene is very dense so when you know two people, you can easily connect with a third one related. Most community organisations are NGOs (garage 48 for example) and most of the animation of startups are NGOs too. They get their money from European projects.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What would you expect from the City of Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Estonian government is very supportive, Tallinn is not really. For most foreigners that come to Tallinn, there are too many gaps to get information for the first steps as most officials do not speak English. So more support to foreigners are still needed. Tallinn entrepreneurship is good but the support must be translated in English. In Helsinki they have 10 different languages, they have more money of course, but so they attract more foreigners. The inclusiveness in startup community is there, but there are many things the government can\'92t do, and if Tallinn want to maintain this image of welcoming startup city, they need to do more as for children education, health, and public services access to foreigners. Tartu for example is much better in international services.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you think that a part of the population can fall in a mistrust of the economy of innovation and reject the startup movement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This is indicated by the last national voting result. This tendenci=y in the population exists definitely. In Estonia, there is a very small portion of population which gets an instant success from startup. The overall population have it very difficult. The startup revenues grows 10 times as fast as the general GDP growth : from 3% in general to 30% in startups. It is not possible to bring that success to the whole population, but young people who finish their studies, know exactly what happens in startups and so they want to jump in it.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The scene exists in Tallinn, Tartu, but not in other cities and in the countrysides. The startup uses a lot of foreign language, so the Estonian language institute try to bring this topic to the ordinary people, in native language.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A realistic optimism about startups is that they need to address this gap to become sustainable and stay on the long term.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.10\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/kristel-laurits/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Kristel Laurits}}, Estonian independent Concept Designer in Copenhagen, 29th June 2020\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you present yourself and tell why you moved from Estonia to Denmark ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am Estonian, I live in Copenhagen. I started to develop my own studio after 2 years working in a Company. I am also contributing to different startups and have been quite active in volunteering work too. I work a lot with fablabs, public sector by doing social work. I was part of an accelerator program. In Tallinn, there was a lot of possibilities for tech startups, but in Copenhagen there is a lot of founding. The government invest a lot to boost companies and innovation. I have learned Danish, and now speaks quite good.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I initially moved to learn more about Danish furniture which is quite popular. They are very open to foreigners. In society, it is very essential to know danish language to stay longer, if you want to bet include better. I\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 volunteered in two organization\'97 Copenhagen FabLab, to democratize tech, teach civilians and people from the street, and \'97in a sauna : voluntary based, with some arrangements for homeless people.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In Estonia I do not feel that the people are so open, but now I am an expat so maybe this is why I get more open myself. By doing social work, I meet a lot of people and it expands my whole horizon. I work also with the recycling center through a startup trying to make a carbon-neutral city and circular economy. I really enjoy my move here.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Have you heard about any exchange networks between Copenhagen and Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Regarding design, an event called \'933 days of design\'94, engages Estonian companies to come to Copenhagen for networking and reach new customers. It is organized by the embassy. They have some kind of person from Enterprise Estonia too and a sort of group / network but I am not part of it.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you feel that there is a common culture across the Baltic Sea ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Yes and no. It is hard to tell because I did many expat friends from all over the world. Culturally there are some similarities of course, and food, regarding other places in the world. Nordics and Baltic are connected by the way, I do not feel very far from home in Copenhagen and I equally love to come back in Estonia or to Denmark.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.11\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/ulla-tapaninen-631667/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ulla Tapaninen}}, Head of Unit, Enterprise services at City of Helsinki, 30th June\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you present yourself ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I have been working for the City of Helsinki for the last 9 years. I arrived and started in a EU project looking at Helsinki-Tallinn relationships. How people are moving, what are they moving for, and what are the companies doing. I have a background in transportation but a lot of other issues as well. And I have been working on the feasibility study of the tunnel between Helsinki Tallinn.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is you main goal as for Helsinki and Tallinn common projects and what is the strategy behind ?The main goal is to integrate services. A first program was defined in 2014 and now we work on the second one from 2019. It define the focus areas we are working on together.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The first focus of studies was on transport connection and the potential tunnel. N ow we look for social and cultural relationships and provide rather people-related studies. We work on project-based developments like feasibility studies. Innovative projects and solutions in smart mobility systems, usually EU founded projects. Finest twins is the biggest project so far. The Living Lab knowledge transfer with special institute and universities is a core part or our collaboration too.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing in terms of stakeholder engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Any project nowadays means stakeholder engagement. We always have some issues that need to get worked together and the main point is that it is very important to engage corporate companies. There are still two different cultures between Estonia and Finland, the people do not work the same and do not have the same issues nor the same history. So it is needed to know the people closely. Our two innovative districts of Helsinki : Yatkasaari (smart-transportation) and Kalasatama (smart-city) are both working very closely with Tallinn.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you have any relationships with other kind of stakeholders in Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are very close to the City of Tallinn and other authorities in Estonia. We also have very good contacts with academic world. Because we are a public sector organization, we have to be close to companies but not so much. About the civil society, we have contacts with the people of Helsinki but not so much with the ones of Tallinn. The startup community is very strong in Helsinki too. The staff of city of Helsinki is maybe 10 times bigger than Tallinn, so it can appear that we take more academic work, but not always. It is very important to balance the leadership in order to maintain good relationships on the long term.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you trying to achieve concretely in terms of Smart-Cities ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are building a very large scale kind of Twin City. We do not know yet what will be integrated at the end. We actually work a lot on integrating business and tech societies and creativity together. If one side lack of work force or want university research, so they can have it quickly from the other side. An important social issues for example is that if you have a diploma in a country, it can be directly applicable in the other. So we do not focus on a specific infrastructure, like a tramway or something like that which must integrate the 2 cities. We are more on the people side.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell me more about the tunnel project ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 It is a very long term plan, but before to start it will take 5 to 10 years. We need to draw plans both for implementation and geographical study, and the planning. It will take a lot of time. We are doing some preliminary studies. We will probably build it one day, but we do not have any founding now and this is not the priority of the agenda. This projects must be financed by countries and cities. In order to finance it, we need strong studies and feasibility to know how much it will cost and how to achieve it the best way.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.12\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikkosilventola/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Mikko Silventola}}, Early stage Investor in 50+ start-ups, Micromobility & last-mile delivery, 30th June\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls10\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your background, how did you start investing in startups ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I started my first company in Estonia in 2006 at the university. It was a traditional company doing content marketing, and I expanded it to Nordic countries, and then to Middle East and Asia. I sold it in 2014. At that time startups started to emerge and we did quite many investments starting from 2012. I lived in Dubai from 2012 to 2014 and then moved to Singapore in early 2014. When I sold the company, I had more capital to invest. I was traveling a lot and I was heavily using Uber in Singapore. This is how I get very interested in mobility.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I had been in contact with the founder of Bolt in Estonia and so have been its first investor. This opportunity kicked me off. I get more and more interested in this topic, and specially how to make the transport more easy for users. What I look now is a super app to integrate all different apps and transport services for customers. I invested in a Columbian Unicorn Rappi, a Central America leader Super App Hugo, also the first Mexican Superapp Pronto, Latam second tier city Super App Apperto and the Algerian Super App YAssir trying to build the leading superapp in french speaking Africa.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your main focus and goals?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I currently mainly focus on Mobility as a Service and Last-Mile Delivery start-ups. I travel a lot and observe issues: traffic, street worksites etc. The cities really need to look at the future and address these problems. I have invested in about 75 different companies, I learn a lot from the founders and help the local players to make them winners on their market. Not necessarily global leaders.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing for network building and community engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I do many fundraising for companies, mentorship in startup challenges, I help key players. I do networking, I am investor in hackathons, I take part to different growth camp. I selectively look at building my network in Europe, Nordic countries and US. I talk to many people. I constantly look for the next super startup, the unicorn leader to help as much as I can.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationship do you have with other stakeholder ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The network work a lot with the public sector, same for academics. I do not have a direct link with them but the networks are related and communicate each others. For example, my partners are deeply tight with the government. In Dubai the mobility innovation comes from a very close research public-private.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you have any expectations from the City if Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Tallinn looks like it works perfectly. The e-services are here for a long time, public transportation are free. Of course the tunnel to Helsinki would help to work more together with the 2 cities. It will make it a better place for global investors. Tallinn is a small package where things work very well.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Have you been confronted to a startup bashing or mistrust in innovation ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Not really. These days, most people have internet and the sources to get information. If they want to work in IT company, learn code, become software developer, it is open and available for everyone. It is quite cheap to start and then to get an employment from a tech company. There is no reason for being against that.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you communicate to the mainstream public by yourself ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I mainly try to talk with people who are founding startups, so they know about the concepts, and they are charged of public communication to the mainstream public. I focus on helping them in giving the best mentoring.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.13\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/amna-ahsan/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Amna Ahsan}}, Growth Hacker & Content Marketer at Thorgate, 30th June\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls11\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell some words about your background and carreer ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I originally come from Pakistan. I passed a bachelor in mathematics then I started my startup, I went to two different ventures, one co-founded it. At some point, I realized that something was missing : I had no knowledge in marketing and business. So I joined a master degree in Scotland in those fields. I started to apply around Europe, targeting countries very startup oriented : Estonia, Netherlands and Malta. I had my own startup idea and they usually look for woman in startup industry. Finally I started to work for an Estonian startup Crypto-wallet called Goodex Finance Network, an app that help to convert currencies, cryptocurrencies and gold. I applied in marketing and started working remotely from Pakistan. The company wanted to do an ICO, so I moved in Estonia in august 2018 to get closer to them. Once I get my ID card everything became very easy administratively. I have received a better offer from Target, another company (group of companies) with an intern software house, venture capital, and NGO in the group. They have a lot of startups in portfolio, and help them in development. So I am still connected with startups, and this is what I like, I never wanted to join corporate.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I have heard last year that it was complicate for some people to move in Estonia. For me it was very smooth. I get my visa for Estonia in 5 days from UK, then I received a work visa for 6 months at my arrival here. I have been helped with the Estonian government police office to fill the documents to receive my ID card in 2 weeks. Now I can to my address changing, tax declaration online, very easily.\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your main goal actually?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 When I joined this group company, the goal was to help all the portfolio companies in marketing. But finally the goal move from the whole company as a group. We have to set up a marketing network inside the group. I guess my personal goal would be to be marketing consultant for the companies at the end.\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing for network building and community engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Apart from my job, I am managing a Non-Profit called \'93Python Estonia\'94. The idea is to help Python Estonia in getting sponsors for the events or to get partners. And to have in their network the developers who can come and help. Usually we look for a speaker to talk about his startup or his experience, and by doing so we wish to create an ecosystem for startups that use python as a language, or developers who want to meet companies in order to collaborate or find a job. I try to integrate any one interested in Python language to network in Tallinn.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We also target ventures, not just to invest capital but to give an access to the ecosystem. A lot of founders of startups use Python Estonia to grow their network. This is sort of an ecosystem. We have been helping a lot of startups by this way, giving unformal mentoring between experienced entrepreneurs and newbies or early project owners. The idea is to be able to connect all of them together. How to develop an app, how to get to the market, how to reach founds\'85.\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationship do you have with the other stakeholders ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The academics more often because we work close to Taltech : the Python code club happens to Taltech and we can maybe be partners time to time. Also students can attend completely free, and a lot of our portfolio companies are closely tight of university.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for the public sector, we do not really have direct partnerships but I have heard about smart-city project involving startups. Within the industry partners we work for, there are Smart-City issues. They have create a software for smart-city lights, a smart-city platform for maintenance and safe energy cost. So we collaborate with them but do not have direct support from them.\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Would you expect anything specific from the City of Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I would suggest to work on an angle in terms of public relationships to make the law system a bit more integrate for startups. Something more digital. We recently had some cases that we won. There should be more sales of the startup ownership, but the system is not improved, it could be more efficient. Before the covid crisis, we were talking about many sales that are now crashed. The court must be more efficient.\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you communicate to the mainstream public ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Not specifically on smart-city but we communicate through monthly digest to all persons which are part of our ecosystem, about innovations from our portfolio. We communicate to partners and all members concerned by the group level.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.14\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/martin-m%C3%A4nnil-28845b74/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Martin M\'e4nnil}}, CIO at City of Tallinn, 1st of July\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls12\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I have an engineer background, I live in Tallinn. I have been working for the IRP department for more than 10 years. My main skills are software and financial software. I applied CIO with an ability to understand complex software problems, servers, networks, technology from technical part, information systems.\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is your main goal ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The technical part of the city needs to run. There are traditionally different levels in the city : the department level (officials) and the agency level (13.000 people). We have started to widen the IT domain from department to agencies, and are very close to do it. Which means that 250 agencies will be integrated to their department services. The end goal is to provide a city-wide platform and information services. In this area there are always room to improve. The data analysis and development projects, plus keeping the existing systems, maintain the workflow systems and the replacement of outdated tech/process, make it evolve with new legacy. We want to take advantage of digital ID and e-Signature which are the pillars of our e-Government services.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 My new challenge and strategy is Data-driven decision making. This is not traditionally the Estonian strength. We are good at digital transactions, tax report, applied for services, but decision-making is a new approach, and I try to build it on the City of Tallinn, which means all department must do the integration part. With a strong open data and a focus on the biggest impact by management of decision-making. We have found that many cases of service automation asks for the re-design of the service before. Usually IT systems comes from different partners and a global platform of public services asks for an UI/UX thinking more user-friendly.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are now thinking about how to integrate the smart-city issues in this refashion of our public services.\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing for stakeholder engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We haven\'92t been very good traditionally in it. But we found that citizens are not really interested. Our Western colleagues put a lot of emphasize in this kind of ethic of governance. As for ourselves, we tried to do it, but the citizens do not care about, they just ask for a good UX in order to use our products easily. The information we collect is that for every e-service, we take a direct feedback from the users. They do not really care about data privacy, of course they do not want us to use it for bad reasons, but they agree to share personal information with the government. It is maybe connected with soviet legacy, where citizen engagement didn\'92t existed.\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationship do you have with other stakeholders ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have very close relationships with private sector. At the IT department of the city we are a small unit of 40 employees, so we can manage the servers but we do not have no development team which would require much more employees. So we work with private sector. They bring ideas, we discuss with them with analytics and managers from the public sector.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We also have a few relationships with academics, with no real impact. We do not have so many cooperation with them.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for the civil society, when it seems interesting to engage them, we do it.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For example, we have launched a social shared transport, sort of Uber for disabled people, last year. We have bring together clients and city official, private city companies and city owned taxi companies, and of course we engaged the group of disabled people in this project.\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Is there anything you would expect from the City of Tallinn to make a step further in your developments ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have made all our services available as e-service. All of the have web flow-management services behind. So we can say that the digital transformation is done. Of course you can apply for everything in paper but so city servant digitalize it manually. Most of the process is covered.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There are still areas where there are rooms for improvement. The one we try to build up is the transport planning. We do not have the software tool to gather all the data from mobility and to analyse it or improve it by data-driven decisions.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I think that decision-making should be supported by data lakes and all the data resources. But there are some legal restrictions like the GDPR. This new legacy didn\'92t changed much because we had similar data privacy law before, but it affected the way how the public sector focus on the issue of data. It blocks public sector in analyzing data from cameras or other sources. It would help if the legislation where lighter : in some cases it went too far. For example we have cameras on the street which can detect car speed and the detection of bus line violation. The tech is available, but the law do not allows to use it. Many things could be done technically, but we are blocked by some general legislation that do not consider the best use we could do of it.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Fortunately, in Estonia, this issue of data privacy is nothing regarding the problems faced in the western countries, which sometimes refuse categorically the digital services for privacy issues.\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Some tech concepts can be hard to understand from the population side. Do you do some mainstream communication about your developments ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 One of the reasons behind Estonian success, is that the public is quite well educated to these concepts. The general knowledge of population on tech innovation is quite good, so we do not do so much explanation as the city, which is usually done by the national government. When we have some new device, we communicate on it, but not on the concepts.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The western governments emphasize the importance of technology, but here we have approached it differently : we have different public services, and must deliver it in the best way as possible. This mindset \'93delivering the best services\'94 is another approach that becomes very enviable but not always practiced. In lot of cases, there is no need for AI or Machine Learning, these are tech innovations, arguments, that do not apply to the citizen point of view. For example here in Estonia, we do not have a need for blockchain, even if this is presented as the best for secure ID, because we already have built our own x-road system and e-signature.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are very proud that our services works well, and we will continue to make it improved always, to make a better government system. The digital transformation in public sector always recommend to start with legislation, then start with important pillars as we did : signature secure, identification secure, documents secure transfer.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.15\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/krister-kalda-bb409825/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Krister Kalda}}, Technology Transfer Officer, Tallinn University of Technology\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls13\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your background and what are you working on actually ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am currently writing a PhD in mobility as a service, micro-mobility and Smart-City. I was working 3 years in dealing with contracts between the university and companies, mostly dealing on intellectual property issues. I actually participate to the test of two self-driving cars. One is a French collaboration with a company called Novia, it is tested on a 1km line in Kadriorg park, and the other one as been built by TalTech and is in use on a 2,5km line between the airport and Ulemiste city. I am investigating how different demographic and environment influence what kind of attitude and service of maintenance is needed for the self-driving cars.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Before that I worked on mobility test in the campus with the 5g and a smart-road material based on solar panel which you can use for zebras lightning or public lightning. We also used it to calculate the number of people walking on it. You can also use it to make sounds for disabled people, you can light it when a car arrives in rural area for less light pollution on the environment.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We participate to the establishment of the smart-city center of excellence. Ralf-Martin Soe is one of my tutors. I have been asked to make a PhD they are supervising. By having worked from the university, they knew me and they wanted to experiment more about the ongoing developments.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The TalTech self-driving car is produced by urban tech startups. We have an interest now in starting the commercialization. We have produced 6 cars so far and 5 are in the making. We developed it as an open-source hardware called ISEAUTO. Everything is posted on youtube.\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your main goal and how do you achieve it ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 At the moment, we have a strong collaboration with Finland. We are sharing developments : they bought our self-driving car model.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our goals are to improve ICT solutions and smart-city, smart-energy systems by sharing knowledge. We also aim to develop new things on top of the things we already have. We just collaborate with Tech university of Munich on this car. The car was physically in Estonia, but driven by internet from Munich. There are endless possibilities to develop collaborations like that. We do the same with Tartu, our goal is to develop the market further.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am also interest in cyber-security issues, we have a quite strong department at the university. We helped implement the NATO center. Cyber-security is a really important topic in all the smart-city area, because malicious people can take over, especially the self-driving car.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There is not one goal or idea, but to develop the campus as a smart-city test base and collaborate with Finland and get more doctors and master students a chance to change the world.\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing for network building and community engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We do hardcore marketing, videos on all what we are developing (e-payment, cars, \'85) we collaborate with research organizations, mostly universities, for ex Singapore last year to help them develop a self-driving ship. We use it to exchange data and collaborate. We do a lot of speeches at different conferences, Singapore, Dubai\'85 we move to that places and get good contacts. We are very integrated to official state visits, we usually collaborate with ministry travels. We follow them to Smart-City conferences to kick start our development.\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationships do you have with other stakeholders and who are your major supporters ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our financial support comes from The European Commission and Horizon 2020 or different funds which support innovation. Otherwise our ministry of education and science, and Ministry of economical affairs as well as the Ministry of foreign affairs.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We collaborate from technology transfer perspective with private business. If they have an idea and want someone to develop it, they ask us. And they always look for smart-people to work for them, even only to pitch their employees. They also give sponsorship to students. In TalTech, ten companies every year give sponsors to students in robotic. Skype\'92s biggest office is still located in our campus, on the next door to our lab.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We collaborate punctually with NGO or civil society : for example on medical technology, the state road association has collaborate with us.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Most state projects engage civil associations. Estonia is a small country and we are the only university focus on tech, so we are very connected to all intern networks.\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What would you expect from the city of Tallinn in order to make a step further ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There is a big change in urban spaces of the city : in front of the Hotel Viru, one of the most famous in town, the city plans to change the road design to make it a pedestrian area, with small traffic and commute. We are in a talk regarding the self-driving traffic areas. We would like to deploy our car first in secluded areas like airport, zoo, hospital\'85 the whole idea is to broaden it once it becomes more safe.\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you think that the last change of government in Estonia could affect the innovation industry ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The worst that happened is that they promised to invest more money into science but they didn\'92t. So people are quite disappointed by this mistrust. Apart from that, the concern is not really on tech industry, but more on the state side and how do ministries spend public money.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The silver economy and Smart-City solutions have a lot to do together : so old people can talk through TV to family members and doctors. There are different solutions for the elevators and houses. The silver economy is a broad term but there are not so many kids coming these days in Europe, the age group of the elderly is growing and will become bigger in the future. We will need to find solutions to answer this need.\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Did you even work specifically on public engagement and participatory decision-making ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Getting people involved has been one of the key issues for the right-wing party actually in government (conservatives). They want people to decide as much as possible. All the rest of politics pray because we all know the average people can\'92t manage most state decisions.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 From a Smart-City perspective, we are on the other hand of Germany for example, where everything is very strict on privacy issues, where it is forbidden to send more that 20 emails at one time. Estonia is much more open to this automation facilities. We try to get rather inspired by the US. Global organizations are emerging and we try to find our way in it by participating and share the Estonian version of Smart-City.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.16\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/omid-sobhanian-9b831a33/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Omid Sobhanian}}, Co-Founder at Smart Logistics Estonia. Between Iran and Estonia, 1st July\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls14\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am an Iranian entrepreneur which worked as CFO for +20 years. We changed our location for Estonia for different reasons. Personally I am Baha\'92ie (religion) and there is a lot of limitations in Iran to practice. I went to Estonia to study startup, mostly to get introduced to the legal context here and in European companies. I started my company on smart-logistic by trying to be close to the institutions. I wanted to move with my family but still waits the boarders to open again after pandemic.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Two years ago, I applied for e-business residency, I didn\'92t needed a startup visa because I was already student, so received a student visa which is enough.\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your main goal ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 My main goal now is to know the Estonian environment and culture better to start a new business here. I tried to do some interviews and studies about smart logistics, I get associated with another student, an Nigerian business man, and we have two other Nigerian in the team as developers, we are all students from the Estonian Entrepreneurship University.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Before the corona we were starting some e-delivery, especially in smart city field around Estonian University of Applied Science. But the situation became very complicate : there is a lot of uncertainty. It is not only the remote work issue : the pandemic has raised a lot of barriers and economy problems. And especially in our field, the e-delivery, the competition have been very hard during this lock down measures seen has an historical opportunity, by also forbidden at some points because accused to participate the propagation of the virus. We are thinking about using robots, it is a complicate project and we will leave it for a better time.\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell some words about your Estonian experience as an Iranian ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There are usually a lot of problem around Iranian people because of the EU and the US sanctions. There are a lot of complication from banks and business areas. They fear Iranian somehow. I tried to open a bank account in Tallinn, but I couldn\'92t easily, only LHV accepted. It is not related to the public situation or the economy : there is no problem for Iranian to take a job or start a company, but the relationship with institutions is more complex, as well as money transfer from or to an Iranian bank.\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What would you expect from the City of Tallinn to make it better ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In my experience, there are some slowness in Estonian reaction, especially from the government side. They could do things more faster than they do now. for example to get my driver licence, it was needed that I bring a translation of the current one and they would issue a local one. It took me two month, it is very long. I didn\'92t expected this from an EU country.\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 why did you chose Estonia and Europe rather than other markets like Asia or the US ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Entering the EU market was an argument to move to Estonia. It is more easy to enter here than in other countries. The reason to move to Europe is because US or Canada is very far from Iran, trips are difficult and take a lot of time. Europe is near and of course it has an open market as US, but not that expensive that US economy.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I think that Estonia is a good place to start a company because it is small and you can manage everything online, but unfortunately there are some barriers from Estonian people. The government of Estonia has old habits in between people, they could address this issues and deliver a better service to foreigner.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.17\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/erikehasoo/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Erik Ehasoo}}, Innovation Advisor, 1st July\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls15\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Innovation is close to my heart. I started from the startup side and built different companies and initiatives for the last 9 years.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I started working for bigger companies as consultant, trying to help them bring this mindset as well. Currently I am engaged in different digital initiatives over energy mainly.\cb1 \
\ls15\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your big goal and what\'92s your strategy to achieve it ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I wish to bridge these 2 worlds : corporate and startup. As an innovator, I focus on bridging political change to society. Startup have great mindset but limited resources. Corporate have a lot of resources but lack the capacity of innovation. By making a bridge, I target great society evolution. Nothing in particular, but a way to enhance people\'92s life. Tech is a tool, I work with it, in order to figure out how to enhance the society, to make life more meaningful.\cb1 \
\ls15\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing to build a network and community engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I put quite a lot of efforts in digital community building by using tools on social media, on LinkedIn. I have been managing an innovators group on Facebook, and I write articles when I have time for it. If the digital side is quantity based, on physical word, I do more quality and prefer building a network one by one, focus on long-term relationship. As a consultant, I always chose longer term connection or mission to strengthen my relationship.\cb1 \
\ls15\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you have any relationship with other stakeholders ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Yes it must be an effectiveness of small society of Estonia : it is easy to make connections. I work a lot with academics and researchers. They have a lot of activities in R&D and in developing Tech solutions.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for the public sector the Estonian e-residency program is like a startup itself. Over the years, they were a small team of consultants which I have worked with. You do not need to have a very high profile to catch them and work with them. Considering the civil society, not at the moment but I have been working in a NGO in my earlier career.\cb1 \
\ls15\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What would you expect from the city of Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Lot of the political mindset could be improved. My personal experience is connected to quality of life, it could be much better with greener developments. Bike and pedestrian areas rather than car roads. If you build a city very enjoyable for the people, it also helps to attract the talents. Having this environment that brings talents is not like creating jobs. Even if you pay people a lot to live in cities with bad quality of life, you will struggle to attract them. If you have good schools, lifestyle, health\'85 you will help the city to grow. I think that the key thing to do in Tallinn is increasing the quality of life.\cb1 \
\ls15\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What do you think about the startup bashing or mistrust in innovation ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I might be biased because I\'92m in, but honestly I haven\'92t seen so much. First Estonia grew in this startup society from the beginning. When they started in the 90's they had nothing. All logistics and infrastructures and the economy and the energy were turned from Est to West. They have had very hard times but the IT came to help the people. Estonians grew up knowing that digital solutions are part of the country, they never saw any other option of state. They had computers in school since they were kids in the 90's. Of course some people are perhaps not so well integrated, but this is a minority that become less and less important : from the digital side you always find ways to engage more and more people and you have to do it to improve the overall picture.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are now in a developed society and it becomes more complex to implement new stuff : in the 90's the people were ready to accept whatever. Now they have more comfort and moving out of this comfort is not always well accepted. But still people keep knowledge and trust in digital solutions. no one asks on the principle if tech is needed or not. this question do not exist here.\cb1 \
\ls15\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you communicate mainstream by yourself ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I don\'92t : I am not a politician and I focus on my niche group which is not wider population. I published a digital book on Estonian digital infrastructure. My network of decision-makers, innovators is growing, and this book became quite popular. It has been a great way to make contacts.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.18\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/raymond-breckon-13582b/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Raymond Breckon}}, Growth & Restructuration, between Estonia and UK, 1st July.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls16\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell some words about your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am living in Estonia for 10 years, before that I lived in Spain and in London, but my wife is Estonian. Tallinn is a good place for startups. Some years ago, the people were not much working in English but now the language gap is completely bound. The office culture is pretty different in between England and Estonia. How the people talk and interact : in UK they are more talkative. Estonia they tends to talk only if they have something to say. Offices are much quieter here and to be honest, I prefer that. In terms of pure business it is the same everywhere, language, issues, but there are less problem with bureaucracy in Estonia, you can do so much online.\cb1 \
\ls16\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is your main goal ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I do have a team now, of 7 people, we built a marketing analytics platform. I was working on it for the last 6 months. We are for a very stable product to communicate and sell. \'93you only get 1 time for your 1st time\'94.\cb1 \
\ls16\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Estonian e-residency has been presented as a way for UK citizens to keep doing business easily with EU. what is your experience ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am a resident of Estonia because I have spent many year here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A lot of people from UK were already residents in Tallinn. I have seen many articles talking about that and I can see the marketing benefit but I haven\'92t see the breakdown. It is said that 300 millions of revenue is created by e-residency but I am suspicious before seeing data.\cb1 \
\ls16\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationship do you have with the different stakeholders ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In my last job, I worked closely with Estonian government and universities on couple of joint projects. With civil society, we tries to but nothing huge, it is the same everywhere : sometimes non-profit do not trust business.\cb1 \
\ls16\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Is there anything you would expect from the city of Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There are no tram network in the suburbs, so people have to drive. A performative public transportation everywhere could make a big difference. Apart of that, there are not so many things to improve. Tallinn is already a really great city. As for public services, the difference between England and Estonia is that England is probably 20 years behind. The way to interact with the state, receiving a licence, paying taxes, this is where you feel the difference. In Spain, interacting with the government is even worst, it can be a nightmare. They do nothing better than before internet was invented.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Tallinn is good for transport card for all bus, tram, etc. pretty easy to use e-scooters too, to bridge the gaps in transport. If you are resident you have all transport free, it makes you feel that states cares about you. this one app to park your car, with no cash, from your phone is very good too. interactions with the city are online, if you have to apply for a permit, it takes a few minutes. everything is very simple and makes a real difference.\cb1 \
\ls16\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 There is also a risk for the population to fall into a mistrust for innovation and digital transformation. How can it affect the startup dynamic here ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The government have definitely moved to the right already in the last election, and it creates come issues for tech companies. They made a lots of noise about how they would like to limit the non-EU workers. They finally didn\'92t did nothing big in that direction, but communicate and made noise. It could really affect the local tech industry which hires a lot of people from Ukraine, South Asia, etc. It could force them to develop their companies differently, outside of Estonia.\cb1 \
\ls16\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell something about the citizen engagement in decision making ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Estonian don\'92t care about politics at all. and so the few far-right parties have been elected, and this is how they realized it. In terms of city planning, I am not sure if there are top-down or bottom-up projects.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A new shopping mall has been built with Chinese money, there was not the need for it nor any demand from the inhabitants, but someone paid for it so they built it. A pity because, some different kind of projects like traffic lights would make much more sense for the inhabitants : the traffic is always busy for people. But money has been put into a new mall which will probably go bankrupt in despite of clients and the city will have to find a way to deal with an empty shopping mall, even if they didn\'92t paid for it.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.19\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/markkokaru/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Markko Karu}}, Independent Consultant, 2nd July\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls17\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I started industrial design, graduate and went to work in advertising around 2000. I am fascinated by strategic design. I co-founded a design studio. 5 years later, other partners found a branding design agency. I have been looking at different fields of design. In 2012, I went to study design and development of culture environment, especially from a startup perspective. I applied to garage 48 in 2012 and win this hackathon with Qminder. I did my studies and my startup growth at the same time.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Once graduate I left the company and get involved in several startups. I also did freelance consulting at the same time. Becoming freelance was a way to become product owner. I joined a team at a strategic position which was more interesting for me. Later I joined in 2017 the team of FounderBeam, an investing and trading app. I aimed to make it more user friendly and usable. I found the legal agreements between the company and investors, since I didn\'92t had any legal background, I left it in 2019 and started freelancing again, helping different companies. I have been around the design industry for about 25 years, my passion is systems and how products work. but I have been doing a lot of graphic work and visual design as well.\cb1 \
\ls17\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is your big goal and what is your strategy ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 My whole history makes sense, I make decisions on the moment on passion, and then this decisions start to combine into a pattern. I have been interested in how the things work, not interested in routine. I am usually the one who comes with an initial idea but never finish it. This has been my role in many teams. It is harder for me to stay focus or energized once the team has no issues to solve, once the company or the product becomes stable, I lose my interest and look for something more challenging. I am now freelancing again because I feel that I can be more useful that way for a period of time : I realized that I do not have personal intern question to answer, so I always try to solve someone else problem.\cb1 \
\ls17\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing for network building and community engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am quite well connected because of different events. The first one I attended was organized by the British council in 2004, it was called \'93raising stars\'94. In 2007 I took the challenge for \'93designer of the year\'94 and did a lot of networking in that time. In Estonia, by being active in startups and founders club, I can easily meet a lot of people, and the country is small enough for not having the need to become more famous.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I also did some videos for the music industry, I wrote articles, I gave lectures or organized workshops, public events, I am quite well know in the circles now. The biggest thanks goes to the British Council which introduced me to public talking.\cb1 \
\ls17\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How would you define the best skills of Estonians ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We use to say \'93Estonian sellers are aggressively waiting for customers to call\'94 it means that we are not good at sales. It is indeed not very natural to approach someone we do not know here.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 What is good about Estonians is that they can be trusted. Once they commit, something they deliver it. They don\'92t over-sell the product so everything that is said can be taken as a fair value. When you give an appointment, Estonians are at time. 13.00 means 13.00 and if the meeting didn\'92t started after 15 min, it means it is cancelled. I remember that we went for some cooperation in Italy once, and the contact gave us a meeting \'93in the morning\'94 without giving a precise hour. I remember that we were very confused and stressed by this absence of rule.\cb1 \
\ls17\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you have any relationship with other stakeholders ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 It is mostly about lectures, I helped many municipalities to organize design competitions or come with new policies.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I do not do Pro Bono work because most organizations who need it can\'92t achieve the work behind. When I engage in NGO or non-profit, I usually sets the limits, because when you start to help, there are always a lot and a lot to do. So you can\'92t make bread if the ingredients are not there.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In the design sector he haven\'92t been active lately, because it is a close community. There is no real benefit, there is no new information: when you want to sell you paintings, you have to talk to customers, not your peers. I didn\'92t found no professional relationship to network with in this field. In a startup community it makes much more sense to be active : it is a mix of skills, you need the ones of others and they need yours, so it is a constant exchange and learning with peers.\cb1 \
\ls17\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you expect something from the City of Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 10 years ago, the city was corrupted and really few politicians benefit from businessmen to pay for them. The guy was trialed.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The openness in the last 5 years have changed but some remains of this system. The biggest problem is central planning : the decisions are made, discussed under the influence of this corrupted mindset. As a result, the citizens do not understand why decisions are made. My biggest concern is that I am an active cyclist and I promote biking in Tallinn for the last 10 years. I go working by bike even in the winter. A group a people have been doing research on where the bikes lines could be in the city. The official city planner came by and said there was no need for change because no bike enough in the city. He closed the discussion and all those people have been working for nothing.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In my experience, the harder part is to convince the politics that it is useful and needed to change habits. But to prove them you have to impulse the change and since they do not follow, the change never comes by. It is a circular problem.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Whatever you do as a plan, you have to take the forces at consideration. You can\'92t force the people to do what you want. you have to work with them. For alcohol, it has been complicate in Estonia at certain time, so anyone was buying it in Latvia and the Estonian state have lost money.\cb1 \
\ls17\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Have you experienced some skepticism or refuse to change by the people themselves ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Yes, people can be skeptical about startups because they see a lot of fails but do not look at the long term benefits. There is a gap in between the 10 years strategy value and the need to bring the money in short term. There is a lot of hype around the ego bursting too. Personal storytelling and rising money from investors became an end goal of this startup movement and this is a part of the combination that create a reject from a part of the population. Like the connections between automation and foreign workers. There are completely two different topics, but the population see it as one because they lose their job. So the global rise of populism is that people want to go back at a time when they had jobs. It is a natural behavior, that when you experience something hard, you want to go back to the last state of security, but the world has moved on, and they have benefit of it : google map, video-calls, and all those free tools very convenient.\cb1 \
\ls17\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Some concepts are quite hard to understand for non specialists. Do you communicate yourself in to a mainstream public ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Blockchain, AI, there is a gap between the people who talk about it and the ones who use it. Smart-City is similar. On the one hand I understand how you can plan differently when you are a dictator : you can have sensors everywhere, and put automation driven by the data.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 How you change the way the people are living is quite academic problematic. When you include everybody in a discussion, most of the population want to delegate to an expert which will make a proposition and take the responsibility. And the more the people are concerned about a topic, the more they call for a specialist to take the decision for them.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.20\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/farokhshahabi/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Farokh Shahabi Nezhad}}, CEO at Formaloo | TEDx Organizer, Between Iran and Estonia, 2nd July\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls18\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell some words about your background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 My main expertise is data analytics and data driven business solutions. I just create a customer data platform for small commerce. I started in 2018 in Iran, then in 2019 I wanted to go global and have an international presence. So we move on the European market and started to have customers in Germany, UK and the Baltic. I had a previous experience in UK and with different European countries, so I knew there are many options here. I chose Estonia because it is very tech, and I want a very active ecosystem to grow. I have received my residence permit.\cb1 \
\ls18\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is your main goal actually ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With my previous company we provided data mining solutions for big enterprises. They had money and power to execute and we benefit it. But I felt at a point that SMEs do not have enough money to spend on data mining and analysis. So we create this company to deliver these services to SMEs with no knowledge in intern. We offer marketing automation solutions very easy to understand and use. It helps small businesses to compete with bigger companies.\cb1 \
\ls18\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How do you do network building and community engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The best thing that took of and made us popular has been to create a form to get more subscriptions. We always add free tools as a hook for our services. We went viral, everyone was using it and it is getting better and better. We haven\'92t been in hackathons, it is not our first startup, we already had the knowledge to build it and the first supports. We also had other revenue streams to begin. Now we are engaged in a foundraising process : last past year we raised 65.000 euros and now look for 300.000 euros.\cb1 \
\ls18\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationship do you have with other stakeholders ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We work closely with academics from everywhere, Iran as well. In the corona situation, schools and universities create online exams and classes, it has been a great opportunity : now we have 50.000 students and 300 institutions on our platform.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for the civil society, some NGOs use us, and some non-profit like TEDx events. 100 events use us for registration, payment, managing attendees. and popular NGOs from universities for job application, registration, audience management. They have special discount for NGOs and non-profit to use as free or almost free services.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The public sector we do not really have connections, except some in Iran.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am more focus on working with private sector.\cb1 \
\ls18\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What would you expect from the city of Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The best thing we want is to grow very fast into the European market and we want the Baltic to be a jump base for us. We all work remote but we want to make it a very global company. We want to make a big remote and successful global company from Estonia. I believe that no one should help a startup except the startup itself. I am not in favor of public engagement in the business side. We have to be active, meet people, work with them, participate events. I do not demand or want something from public sector except ease the regulations, and Estonia already has done a lot. Having a very fast service is the most important, we look for stability to grow. When rules change too often so you can\'92t grow.\cb1 \
\ls18\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What do you think about the mistrust of the population in the business of innovation ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I haven\'92t been confronted to that. We were working before and we didn\'92t encounter any think like this. It\'92s the future and people knows it. why would people want to continue slow and complicate procedures when we can ease it ? The digitalization movement moves forward by the way and finally it becomes the best option to cut cost and be more effective. There are some countries moving faster and others slower, this is a reality. China had huge job to do on the last 10 years and it becomes better every day.\cb1 \
\ls18\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Some tech concepts are sometime hard to understand for the average of people. Do you try to communicate with the mainstream area ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 When internet and smartphone have been invented, it was the same. First people thought it was an academic tool and they did not need it. Then these innovations came into there life and now they use it everyday. The public do not really care about the tech itself, they care about the result. When they see the result, they will understand how they can benefit it, they do not need to understand the protocol and how it works. they use it because it makes the job. They don\'92t care and don\'92t really want to know what\'92s inside the box. The best thing that happen to any technology is to show the results to attract more users.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Nowadays data mining and data analytics can solve a lot of problems. A lot of inefficiency can be fixed in all industries and in the public sector by improving it on data mining. The industry collects the data, they have it, but do not use it because they do not know how to do. We have a lot of inefficiency in the world, and we can solved it if we change the status quo, if we change how we work. For that we need analytics and mining.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.21\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/anni-saar/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Anni Saar}}, Head of Legal Operations at Startup Wise Guys, 2nd July\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls19\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I studied 9 years ago, have been living in Argentina and came to Tallinn Technical University for legal studies on IT law, both for Estonian public and private law. I started to work on Estonian Human Right Center as legal expert for 6 years, and gave lectures in TalTech during 5 years in IT law, contract law. I have both professional experience in startup, and in a law firm, and I really prefer the startup mindset. When I saw an offer of Startup Wize Guys in law I joined them.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Start Wise Guys started in 2012, as part of the Estonian Mafia. And they have their own mafia too : we have hosted 200 startup in FinTech, Saas,\'85 We will open a new office in Italy, and we have projects in Turkey, Ukraine, we try to be the most active as possible. We write a report on Baltic ecosystem. Basically we propose a 3,5 month accelerator. Our startups receive training, meetings, mentors, marketing week, sales\'85 all what they need to grow and develop. It is very founders oriented.\cb1 \
\ls19\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is your main goal ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Obviously it is to grow the most, to be the best, those two can\'92t be taken separately. But we want to be coherent with our values and keep the good ambient. We take care about our team and we do not want a corporate mindset but to scale by respecting who we are. We organize events, in Latvia, in Turkey, and everybody of our team are very excited to participate and tell their success story. We all want to show what happened, how everybody supports each other, how we get together and how everybody feels that he can trust each other. We want to keep the feeling this way. Our CEO is Spanish by the way, he studied here and stayed to create the company.\cb1 \
\ls19\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing for network building and community engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Apart of organizing events as I just said, we also have online pre-accelerators. It is a step before they come inside, it is for free, no money to be paid. The startup who gets selected can reach prices to join the accelerator. this is what we do for the community. We feel that we have done something for the better cause. We also have different partnerships and events (ex. Tech Chill Lithuania) where we provide pitches, jury members, reports on the ecosystem.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have a joint partnership this year we will have a summer school from 16 to 22 years old. We also offer co-working opportunities to startups who want to be close to us. The investors are also very active : they come to mentor, give feedback before the final pitches. We also have a lot of partners from banks, and local and international mentors from EU, US\'85\cb1 \
\ls19\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationship do you have with other stakeholders ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for the public sector we contribute to the cyber vertical with the Ministry of Defense, Startup Estonia is also a partner. We are not only in private business or academics, we are close to the public sector and education area.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There are not many NGOs in Estonia. Even if I was working in human right center I do not see n how to collaborate with them. In the sustainability vertical, it will probably be feasible. Through mentoring, we also have some non-profit organisations that give talks in the health and mental health part.\cb1 \
\ls19\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What would you expect from Tallinn City ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Most of startups are established in Estonia, because it is much more easy to manage. The program we run in Lithuania is 50/50% private/public (from EU), in Estonia the funds are 100% private. So it changes a bit the way to grow the startups : the ones from Lithuania have to be established in Lithuania. In Estonia there are no restriction on the place to establish the startup, with an e-resident card or not.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The new law will ease the share selling even if it is not really difficult at this moment. Maybe a system to ease the apartment research in Tallinn could help. Apart from that, there are not so many things to improve from Tallinn city: sport, nightlife, spas, rent a car\'85 all what is good for startups is already available.\cb1 \
\ls19\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Have you ever felt a startup mistrust or bashing from the population?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Startups are different than regular companies, and sometimes the politics, even the ministry of IT, do not want to understand it. I am 100% inside startups but my friends and family are not and they have nothing against.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 It is also said that it is complex for Russians to integrate, but I do not feel it : we all go to Estonian school together. So I do not see that this issue do not exist, but I can\'92t see it myself. Of course, some people have comfort and they do not want to change their habits, so startup somehow can disturb them. But Estonians are rather proud of their startups and startup community.\cb1 \
\ls19\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you have any mainstream communication ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We publish report and communication in TV, articles have been written.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We go time to time to schools to provide lectures or present ourselves. All of us take the opportunity when there is to go and talk somewhere, share our experience, advice on the opportunities and risks. Our team is not only Estonian, it comes from all over Europe. We volunteer at some events, we talk to the TV, do live streams, interviews\'85 We try to do our best to raise the openness and the knowledge around the projects we work on.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The youngest startup founder in our program was about 18 years old.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.22\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/siiri-kolka-846586173/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Siiri Kolka}}, EURAXESS Estonia, 2nd July 2020\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 1. What\'92s your backgroun and actual position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I represent mostly the European Commission Initative called EURAXESS, which was create to support researchers mobility in between European countries. I use it here to attract talents in Estonia. Initially it was mostly to provide a support for geographical mobility and at a legal level : some work had to be done in terms of making the legislation more friendly to make people work more easily in Estonian research. Before the Ministry of Education and Science, there was a lot of collaboration with the Ministry of Interior, to make inclusion term for specific immigrants. We have eased the exception for researchers, and it helped the startups to grow upon, and drive similar negotiations. From visa process, to find a kindergarten, all must be smooth for researchers in order to move in Estonia, and finally it eased the startups too. When I left my main attaches group in 2016, in European Commission level, a lot of push had been done to support researchers career, which also means more and more emphasize to mobility between sectors and train researchers in entrepreneurial skills. Our main research institution with all this startup activities in Estonia, have quite good networking experience, but nevertheless, Euraxess services are a very big part of this service at an international level. We gather 14 countries at their ministries level, we collect the information, and share it to the right spaces.\
2. What are your main goals ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 At this moment, for this initiative, we can only make sure that our efforts are being done. If there are researchers from the Estonian Research Institutes that would be interested in a startup community, so we will help them find it.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The career development support for researchers in general is out goal. This community in itself, and also Enterprise Estonia in certain cases for this purpose, have more resources. Since we spend public money, we need to be sure that we achieve our goals. Actually we try to establish an e-toolbox to educate the Euraxess network to become more aware of the Startup movement, to help better the researchers to move in. In Estonia, this system works well, it is already good by itself and do not need so much support, but when you go to small research institutes, they will need more help to understand. In Estonia, startup has to be tech and scalable, but it is not the case in all countries. So we also look at how to do research-based startups meaning not IT, but academic-research based startup/entrepreneurship.\
4. What are your relationship with other stakeholders ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Estonian research is a foundation related to the ministry of education.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 European network is slowly moving towards providing information about the possible shift from Academic results to startup. And that kind of consultation of information services is slow and a matter of public founding. If you would open any public announcement then you would see that everybody is emphasizing the need to support on that side. states are trying to do, trying to support, both national and European level.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 2.4.23\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/anu-oks-91b836112/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Anu Oks}}, Managing Director of Estonian Business Angels Network, 5th July\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls20\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell some words about your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am not the founder of EstBAN myself, but since I started working in startups and building programs I have been selected to manage this network. I started my career in Enterprise Estonia, which provides grants and services. I was working on public grants there. Then I was building startup programs for TalTech, she took very responsible assignments to build angel network in Estonia. Now I am working for 3 years with EstBAN and improving the angel investing in Estonia. We have a very strong and agile ecosystem, even if small. EstBAN is now 6 or 7 year old. We were established in 2013 as an NGO by 25 young very active super angels in Estonia. We have been growing to 150 investors. The main value is the network itself. We do not invest directly, we provide services. EstBAN investor is mainly Estonia and around 43 years old. We also have international neighbors which look for investing opportunities in Estonia and the Baltic. We do not have only Estonian startup but also from Nordic, Baltic, Russia, Ukraine. BANs are a few all over Europe, and there is a rooftop organisation. EstBAN is a member of euBAN.\cb1 \
\ls20\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is your main goal ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Basicaly, EstBan main goals are to provide the better ecosystem for angel investing and startups, the better opportunities to get seed founding for startups and the best startups to invest their assets in. A better angel investment scene for both parties. Rising the knowledge of angel investing for all society for anyone to understand what are Angel Investors and how to reach them. Showing Europe and the world what Estonia is doing in terms of angel investment.\cb1 \
\ls20\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing for network building and community engagement ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We do documents and templates for investing, some lobbying fto government and involve the public servants as well. Our main activities are to do with the deal flow: pitching events for startups to present to investors. Lot of networking aspects in these events. They are very unformal : training sessions for new investors, understand what is round ABC, mistakes not to make and activities to do. We are always taking part in different flashing events. We are putting together syndicates of investment with small investors, for small tickets to be able to invest together, combined by the business angel support. This is usually done in corporation. We have contacts with other networks : US, Denmark, Iceland, Israel, to understand how it works in other ecosystems and to introduce ourselves. We do study trips, training, dedicated angel investors events like festival Angel Camp, with max 100 participants, very focus. The importance of cooperation with other investor networks like fiBAN, is knowledge exchanges, the lobbying and educating the society, we make articles, we present ourselves at the radio, TV shows to talk about Angel investment in startups. this is done by 2 staff members (CEO and the marketing)\cb1 \
\ls20\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationships do you have with other stakeholders ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We work very close with incubators and accelerators. We are doing cooperation with universities, teaching and training students and providing mentoring in university programs. Startup Estonia has also a public sector network which works very close with EstBAN and we also work with corporate companies which are interested in innovation and financing startups (energy companies, bank companies\'85) the cooperation model is with all categories of stakeholders.\cb1 \
\ls20\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you expect anything from the City of Tallinn ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We haven\'92t done any cooperation with the City of Tallinn so far, because we haven\'92t seen any cooperation opportunity to work together. The city of Tallinn is supporting the earlier stage startups with programs and incubators and co-working places, but I haven\'92t found any topic or activity to cooperate with them.\cb1 \
\ls20\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you have anything related in Smart-City and Urban Innovation?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have quite many startups which have been pitching their projects to EstBAN especially green energy and smart environment. We work together with VC founds which are looking for this field. They usually do not look for early stages but then invest more into society and city scale solutions. The quick value back in Smart City is usually what we get interested in that field. Recently we received a smart-parking system. Technopol is quite engaged in the urban innovation aspect.\cb1 \
}