{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Charter-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red31\green31\blue31;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red98\green98\blue98;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c16078\c16078\c16078;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c80000;
\cssrgb\c45882\c45882\c45882;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid801\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid901\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid10}
{\list\listtemplateid11\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1001\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid11}
{\list\listtemplateid12\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1101\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid12}
{\list\listtemplateid13\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1201\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid13}
{\list\listtemplateid14\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1301\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid14}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid11\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid12\listoverridecount0\ls12}{\listoverride\listid13\listoverridecount0\ls13}{\listoverride\listid14\listoverridecount0\ls14}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 2.4.1\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/eyal-yaniv/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Eyal Yaniv}}\'a0and\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/rangoldstein/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ran Goldstein}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.biu-smart-city.com/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Bar Ilan Center for Smart Cities}}\'a0at Bar Ilan University, 2020 February 6th.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell me more about your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The Bar Ilan Center for Smart-Cities has been created by professor Eyal Yaniv, PhD in Business Administration and Mastered in Social Science, now Chairman at the Business School of Bar Ilan University, with experience in the web industry. Ran Goldstein, is Mastered in public policy, and graduate in Business Administration.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Passing a double Master Degree in a primary discipline and in Business Administration is very common and makes sense for the whole ecosystem of Israel : they do not practice a research without looking for the best and shortest way to value it concretely. So, they are all at the best strategical position to know first what happens in their own industry.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Which are the main goals you are trying to achieve with Bar-Ilan Center for Smart-Cities ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In some place of the world, we can visit amazing hubs and innovation center but nothing comes out. They do not have an old generation to push the new generation forward. In Israel the first generation of tech startups from the early 90s, help the newbies: they give ideas, advice and coaching. They know how to really help because they have already processed the same way. And this double competence in research and starting business is the regular mindset from the beginning of Israel. We had a country to build and strengthen to exists toward its neighborhood and regarding the world diplomacy, and an economy to create from scratch. So the Israeli have always been part of a same final goal to achieve.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The professors have the practical background of the market. They are both mentors and academic professors. This is very specific in the world to have this passing of power between generations, except in the silicon valley, where it is kind of the same.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationships do you have with other stakeholders ? and Who are your major supporters ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In Bar-Ilan University Center for Smart-Cities, we are an academic institution gathering municipalities, industrial companies and startups. We are free to implement solutions on the campus to proof-test the products developed by our partners but even this living lab do not lead enough to direct opportunities to deploy tested solutions in the city.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The relationships with government are not so fluent: a lot of decisions can\'92t be taken by the municipality but depends on the national state. The buses and public transportation in Tel Aviv for example, depends on the ministry of transportation of Israel. To caricature, the mayor can\'92t move a bus station by himself. This centralization of decision-making creates problems and delay in deploying effective solutions.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Then, the tech companies and IT industrials are very good, but so they take to many power of influence on the electives, the government and the municipal council. It creates an overthrow of the hierarchy in the direction of a few private interests.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your strategy and actions for network building and community empowerment ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We organize an annual event to bring all the municipalities, the companies which we partner with. We exchange ideas, propose networking and joint research about what they could do together.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We also organize time to time gatherings. Here we can host events on specific topics like \'93education\'94 for example. In one month, an open event to the students and the neighbors will be host around an episode of the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silicon_Valley_(TV_series)"}}{\fldrslt \ul Silicon Valley}}\'a0TV series, and after the watching, we will engage a debate with the public to get their feedback on how to implement a similar plan in the university campus.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We open these events by web conferences locally, and plan to open it to our partners in Europe as soon as possible. Because we are an academic actor, we need to find a solution that will respect the copyrights, the security of the connection, the firewall of the university etc.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of management do you apply and how is it different from the majority of tech hubs ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The way of management is different and comes from the army. It\'92s a \'93Go, Go, Go !\'94 mindset which tolerates to solve the problem along the way which is the best for an army and also for the startups.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 It\'92s OK to fail, and start again, we are looking for the best way to hit a goal, sometimes we try something, if it do not produce direct results, it is not a problem. What is important is to know why it failed and what kind of experience can be reached out of the fail.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Then, both the team building and the innovation in itself starts in the military context. The most famous unit to deal with cyber-things is the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unit_8200"}}{\fldrslt \ul unit 8200}}, subordinate to the military intelligence directorate.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But the Israeli Army way of management is not the same than regular armies, often characterized by hierarchical relationships and the subordination of lower ranges. The Israeli army is based on the maximal empowerment of the soldiers and informal relationships between the chief and the others. Everyone have the right to tell directly what he thinks, feels, and can suggest another plan to achieve a mission. We do not look the grade but the efficiency and the competences of each soldier.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your expert\'92s point of view on the Israeli Smart-City ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 At the beginning of modern Israel, it was desert everywhere, 70% of the land is considered as arid or hyper-arid. So the first tech companies of Israel come from the agricultural sector.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Then a large part of Smart-City companies started in state security (army, surveillance tech, firewalls, etc. ) So now their innovation follows the clients needs which are the State or the biggest Municipalities and the Army.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Another characteristic is that we have 250 cities in Israel which is too much for the small population of citizens. And the scale of the cities are very different, so it is very hard to find a unique model of Smart-City to generalize : the major smart models do not make sense for small infrastructures.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 These small cities gather in clusters of municipalities but so it deletes public servants and makes it difficult to take decisions on investment in the tech field. And most of them are too small to have someone dedicated to the tech issue in local government, so nobody urge them to move ahead. As a side consequence, even if 95% of Israeli people have an access to internet it can be too slow in some parts of the country.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What else can you tell about the particular mindset of Israeli Startups Ecosystem ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A downside of the reward on the competence and the career progress to the merit,is that some generals in the army do not want to receive any advice and think they do know everything. A bad habits we can find in the business too. It creates problems of blockage in the free deployment of solutions. The combination with centrality of decision-making and this legitimate self-confidence on some successful people sometimes create deadlock situations hard to deal with. Even harder to negociate since Israel is a political island with conflictual neighboring.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Isolated from Europe : no direct mainland road connection, an only maritime connection with Italy, with good relationships with the governments of Egypt and Jordan, but where the populations do not like us. Too many challengers in Lebanon and civil war problems in Syria.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.2\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/hemdat-sagi-6296411a/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Hemdat Sagi, Head of Strategy & Business Development, Konnect- Volkswagen Group Innovation Hub Tel Aviv}}, 2020 February 11th.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background and how did you came into this actual position in your organization ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I have been hired by the Volkswagen group two years ago to set up this community. Before that I spent 5 years in Berlin serving as a commercial attach\'e9 at the embassy of Israel to help Israeli companies to do business in Germany. My first mission was first for for the brand Audi, then I\'92ve been asked by the whole group to grow an innovative hub in Israel.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How many people are you in this hub and what goals are your trying to achieve here ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We launched this hub in 2018, we are now 8 people in Israel defined as an open innovation hub (6000 in the whole group). We find startups in Israel to incubate, following the challenges of the brands (Porsche, Audi, Volkswagen), we evaluate their maturity, their potential for growth and the compatibility with our intern goals. We make the link between corporate companies and startup innovation, to see if it is possible to bring them to a next level. Since now we have accompanied 24 projects.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our interest for car innovation goes from drivers health, outside sensors, inside the cabin innovation, cameras, lighter automation, etc\'857\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationships do you have with the other stakeholders and who are you major supporters ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are 100% supported by our corporate group. Our mission for them is to host people from the group who bring their own ideas and improve it with the innovation team here. We are the local place of the group to acquire this innovation hub mindset. Failure is hard in Germany, but it is necessary to succeed transformation. So we host and train our own employees at the Israeli mindset.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 So we do not need any subsidies from the local or national government but we keep in touch with them to launch our mobility projects. For example we are at the point to launch a robot taxi project in Tel Aviv, so we need state and municipality authorization, but also a dedicated infrastructure. A specific road to test the cars will be opened soon. The main negotiation with the government comes from the fact that they want the data.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We do not have relationships with the academics, we follow them from far away. I personally think that the startups are most innovative and advanced in research on their markets.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Then of course we need to follow the Venture Capitalists to reach them in financing our innovations.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We do not have any contact with the civil society since we do not do any B2C sale. Except for surveying on potential users which are not done by the hub itself but rather by the startups incubated.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is your strategy and actions for network building and community empowerment ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We organize events to present speakers from the group to our local network. Startups, Venture Capitalists are the public, with other hubs and accelerators.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There are a lot of challengers who propose incubation services and investments in the best startup solutions, but Israeli first ressource is the people and the tech innovation, so the innovation strategist of the city always finds the way to bring more and more new actors in the ecosystem and in works so far. This situation of challenge between the hubs is good for the startups who can select the partners and the corporate they want to work for/with.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 So the best strategy we are applying so far is to keep in touch with everyone, something that makes sense with the Israeli ecosystem characteristics where everyone knows everyone and want to pull up the whole economy of the country.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your expert\'92s point of view on the Israeli Smart-City ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are super tech hub for mobility innovation but downside in the street the public transportation do not work so well. This is a contradiction that may affect the inhabitants.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This is the mindset of Israel, things are not very structured and framed but it encourage people to a lot of creativity.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.3\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/liora-shechter-b04281133/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Liora Shechter, Chief Information Officer at Tel Aviv Municipality}}, 2020 February 17th.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.tel-aviv.gov.il/en/Pages/HomePage.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 Tel Aviv-Yafo Municipality}}\cf5 \strokec5 \'a0employs 450 IT to develop its own data integration platform\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal Background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I followed a primary education in computer science and 2nd Master\'92s degree in Business Administration (like most of academics in Israel). My career started in\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Israel_Defense_Forces"}}{\fldrslt \ul IDF \'97 Israel Defense Forces}}, then I joined the{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tel_Aviv-Yafo_Municipality"}}{\fldrslt \ul \'a0Tel Aviv-Yafo Municipality}}\'a0as Chief Information Officer in 2011.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s the goals you want to achieve by this position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As a slogan it would be \'93transform TLV to become a smarter city\'94. The primary goal is to focus on implementing different kind of services for the residents of the municipality. The secondary one would be to develop tools to better manage the municipality in a more efficient and optimized way. The third one is to inject innovation into the municipality itself, and improving the collaboration with the startup ecosystem is the way to do it. So we develop practical ways for a continuous implementation of innovation in the public services.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationship do you have with other kind of stakeholders (Citizens, Business, Academics?)\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We already implemented 80 to 90 % of the public services digitally. This seams to be the first step for building a digital relationship. Now we understand how to make the process better, how to be proactive towards our public service mission. So it is not only about digital implementation, it is also how you do it and how you implement it. For the moment, Parking, kindergarten registration, school registration\'85 all services are digitalized.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is your strategy and approach for network building and community empowerment ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The digitalization of municipal services was not enough and we wanted to move on a more personal approach. As for every good web platform, every user have to find a personalized service. So we created a members club :\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.tel-aviv.gov.il/en/Live/ResidentsCard/Pages/default.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \ul Digitel, is a free Resident\'92s card}}, that give the residents an access to a lot of personalized benefits, depending on the personal info users declare. Depending your tastes for culture, activities, if you are married, with childrens or not, the municipality brings residents valuable services, data and specialized information.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 To be efficient, e-services must be delivered at the right time for the right person. For example, if you have a new born baby, the municipality will send you personal kindergarten services, activities for kids, last minute tickets for shows\'85\'a0The municipality is offering something fun and free that is relevant for the resident.\'a0They appreciate it. From the perspective of the resident, the municipality gives discounts that brings a close and good relationship between citizen and local government.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For example, the municipality is giving some free yoga classes, sport and activities in the municipality hall rooftop, people can access beach volley courts and street workout in every beach and parks, navigate with small boats on the river\'85 So it is a way to have fun and experience positive relationship with the municipality.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have developed an app to reserve a seat on the beach at the best price, with possibility to pay online and have a receipt instantly. This digital experience spread all over the city: the municipality engage to fight the high cost of living and bring the resident the best experience and benefit of cultural offer.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Thanks to this Resident Card,\'a070% of people are engaged in a direct digital relationship with the municipality, an unprecedented opportunity for us to reach them directly. The engagement of the communities and citizens in running the municipality is done by public participation events, both physical and virtual. It\'92s not only voting because it do not give opinions. It is a combination about open and guided decisions, depending on what is asked. What should be implemented in the education, in the community center etc. In practice, our citizen consultation is not about an infrastructure project because people do not really feel concerned by architecture of the buildings or the design of public spaces, public engagement is more about how to impact the daily life of the citizens. Because of the digital power, we are able to cut the population by neighborhood and target directly the people. We do not ask people from neighborhood X to decide for inhabitants from neighborhood Y. And we apply this targetted participation in every department of the city : it\'92s a guide-lined philosophy or our public services.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How about your relationships with the national government ? Who are your major supporters ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We do have collaborations with the government (national) but not high relationship. The best supporters come from the local government (municipality) managers.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The IT department has 450 employees to develop more 90% of the digital tools in house.\'a0The municipality collects and owns all the data from citizens, private companies and public services departments and so we are able to do integration to all kind of data.\'a0The idea is to really collect Datas and bring it to personalized activities. So we built an online real-time map with different layers accessible to different public departments. Depending the needs of info for your mission, you can have a direct access by this map to what is happening right now in the city.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This dashboard is filled by intern services information (data on infrastructure) but the citizen can load information too: by the possibility to take a picture of any public space and report some issue directly to the municipality. So we do have a layer on this map of the reports by inhabitants but we also have sensors, cameras, contractors cars and our own cars (public services) displayed on the map.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We integrate all these Datas on the map and divide the Datasets to the different services : we have developed specific applications depending on the professions. You do not see an operational global dashboard like that in other kind of smart cities. We meet with a lot of cities worldwide to share experience and knowledge. We do not try to sell our model, we just share experience.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you target any concrete (I mean material) transformation of the City of Tel Aviv ? The public transportation actually is quite bad, and the bike lanes are not continuous neither.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 About the transportation, indeed, Tel Aviv was not built for massive transportation. So we do no have any underground metro system not tramway or enough space to build dedicated bus lanes. Tel Aviv is a fairly new city but we still have to carry 1 million people who come every morning to work and leave on the evening.\'a0Public transportation is a high concern of the municipality but still is the responsibility of the state Government.\'a0So we are in a transition period for the moment. A light train is in construction but the sites block a lot of streets, and it will get worth until it will be ready to circulate in 2 or 3 years.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 About the bikes, it\'92s the same : the project is quite new (5 years old) and we are actually building more and more roads.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Car sharing and bike sharing systems are the competences of the municipality. So we work with the government to find a solution on the use of public roads and the integration of multiple modes of transportation.\'a0It will take 3 or 4 years to close all the gaps. But the underlying policy is to give the pedestrian a first priority. The single proprietary car users will have less and less comfortable ways to drive in the center city because we plan to avoid it as much as possible in the future.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Tel Aviv is the capital city of the Startup Nation, how do you tackle the problem of the high attractiveness of your city for worldwide innovative brands and investments ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Indeed the municipality of Tel Aviv is using this concept as a Startup City as well. So we provide a lot of services to\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.tel-aviv.gov.il/en/WorkAndStudy/Pages/Supporting-Local-Startups.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \ul support local startups}}\'a0and the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.tel-aviv.gov.il/en/abouttheCity/Pages/SmartStartup.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \ul Smart-City deployment}}. We also have selected 31 startups to become\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.tel-aviv.gov.il/en/WorkAndStudy/Pages/Tech-Ambassadors.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \ul Tel Aviv Tech Ambassadors}}.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Specific services are developed for startups: tailored datasets, open datas, one-to-one talk with a municipality expert\'85 If they have a prototype or product to test, they can try it on the better site for 6 months in real conditions. We also have opened working sites for startups, among others City Zone, The Library, one for children in Sarona and The Platform, which is oriented to the immigration community. We also organize hackathons and lot of meetups. The Smart-City center in Tel Aviv University: CityZone is also a publishing city challenges and invite startups who want to tackle them. They enter in a one year program driven with facilities to implement live solutions in the city. A sort of Living Lab but very practical. All of them aims to bring a direct solution to an identified problem, as fast as possible.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 So we can say that the municipality have a good collaboration with startups. The municipality is absolutely not set aside of the deal between private companies and inhabitants. The local government in Tel Aviv developed not only open data but open architecture of the information around the municipality. The first customers are the apps from the banks and wallets (FinTech). And we take the risk to let an outsider to reach inside the data of the municipality, not only to access it but also fill in the Data Storage.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The biggest challenge to make this startup city a reality is that the time zones and languages are usually not the same between startups and big organizations. At the municipality we are giving an equal chance to everyone on the market to develop a solution for an issue.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.4\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/elisabeth-dray-5a461372/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Elisabeth Dray}}, Real Estate Agent at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ec-nadlan.com/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ec Nadlan Tel Aviv}}, 2020 February 24th.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal Background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I\'92m French, living in Tel Aviv for 25 years. When I moved here, Tel Aviv was already criticized for being a liberal enclave in a much more conservative Israel and Middle-East region. I came here because I felt very free to live like I wanted. The Israeli love the quiet, the nature, the chill.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How would you explain the real estate market of Tel Aviv and the city transformations those last two decades ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 20 years ago, Tel Aviv center was very small. Then you had two residential neighborhoods in the periphery:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramat_Aviv"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ramat Aviv}}, quiet and clean, rather inhabited by the upper middle class, and\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tzahala"}}{\fldrslt \ul Tzahala}}, more popular, hosting the former militaries.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Tel Aviv mayor\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ron_Huldai"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ron Huldai}}\'a0is mayor for 22 years now. He succeeded in changing the image of the city, provoking an important flow of foreign investors, notably French, to buy holiday accommodations on the seaside. The front of the beach were absolutely left behind before that time, there were no children, no family, no young people. Tel Aviv center and beaches were inhabited by elderly with limited financial resources.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With the flow of investments from abroad, the mayor invested a lot of money and effort to refurbish and boost the center of Tel Aviv, to attract the youngest generations of Tel Aviv population.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 He opened restaurants, nightclubs, refurbished the old docks of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tel_Aviv_Port"}}{\fldrslt \ul Tel Aviv Port Namal}}. By contrast with the residential periphery where there is nothing to do at night, the center of Tel Aviv became the only place to go out and have fun at night and Tel Aviv gained this reputation of \'93City that never sleeps\'94.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Once this leisure revival, the cultural offer of the city has gone from strength to strength and the mayor started to allow building rights on\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rothschild_Boulevard"}}{\fldrslt \ul Rothschild Boulevard}}\'a0to build luxury real estate and attract the wealth of the periphery. Indeed once the children had left the house, the upper class of the population living in periphery realized they could enjoy better the proximity with the cultural offer of the center town.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 These two key maneuvers highly increased the prices of real estate properties in the whole town. The inflation started 20 years ago, and the peak have been reached 4 years ago. Nowadays the price of a tower building on Rothschild Boulevard is about 30 to 35.000 USD by square meter.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The economy is very strong and apart from the big war with Lebanon, the prices never get down, even during the regular wars. The economy and the market of Tel Aviv are not influenced by the politics, it is on a parallel lane. We are having major elections running at this moment, but people seems to be very disconnected from the politics.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 (note from the author: the elections mentioned in the interview happened indeed days after and have registered a turnover of 70 %)\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 So, what\'92s the profile of the inhabitants now, and the actual trends on the market ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The cost of living increased, everyone complains but the restaurants and the bars are full. The young people living in the tech and the bank sector have high revenues and they spend money. The Israeli consume and travel. The average salary in Tel Aviv is about 10.000 shekel (2.865 USD) with a large standard deviation, from the minimum salary at 5.500 shekel (1.575 USD) to the Tech and Bank salaries around 20 to 25.000 shekel (5.733 to 7.166 USD). As for an idea, a family of couple with two kids needs 30.000 shekel per month ( 8.600 USD)and a 4-room flats costs from 8.000 shekel per months ( 2.293 USD).\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The birthrate is very high in Israel (about 3.2 children by family) and this trend is being reinforced : the Jewish loves family and children things.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There are more and more buildings for the elderly people too, which are not retirement homes. The silver economy develops itself a lot, also in terms of cultural offers and services.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And the young people are a lot to live in the center too, even if it costs a lot to live here. Flat sharing is a basic for students and young professionals. Co-living is the new trend: two real estate developers are actually opening whole buildings dedicated to this demand.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your professional point of view on Tel Aviv reat estate market today ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Prices started to be regulated by the ministry of finance elected 4 years ago. Rather than create lower taxes in peripheral zones to boost, the State have increased the impositions in the center. Taxes, right to acquire, tax rate on the gain of the sale, as been increased in the center. The psychological effect has been to frozen the market. The sales has been slowed, and that have had a hard impact on the real estate agencies which contributes to the whole economy of Tel Aviv. The investors stopped to invest, the real estate developers stopped their projects while the center city was already lacking 15.000 housing units. The scarcity of rent offers contributes to the continuing inflation.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The crucial part is to find a land. The land is owned by private actors or the State. The\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jewish_National_Fund"}}{\fldrslt \ul KKL}}\'a0\'97 Jewish national found is the biggest public land owner but do not sell lands to build easily. Furthermore the Public lands are sold by Public tender so the price is usually the highest as possible, and the private owners use to negotiate the sale with different challengers, so it keeps high too. The main demand of housing is in the center, where a nude land is almost impossible to find, so developers buy an old building, demolish it and build a new one.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 12 to 18 months are the common delay to obtain a building permission in Tel Aviv, so the real estate developer has to carry a project for about 5 years, which has high costs.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I think that the municipality is kind of opposed to this private to market initiative to increase the offer of housing and so decrease the access price. It always wanted to make a wealthy city in tel Aviv.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The sun have been hiden in some streets since the building of all the scyscrapers, it has contribute to change the ambiance of the city.\cb1 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 And what could be the evolution on the future ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The tramway should have a super effect to unblock the city mobility. The first line should be open in 1 or 2 years. A part of the population, the youngest probably, should catch the opportunity to live in the suburbs of Tel Aviv and access more affordable housings. It will regulate the demand and so the prices of rents and sales in the center city real estate.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The 2002 UNESCO label on the Bauhaus architecture of Tel Aviv and the work of the Department for the Conservation of the History of Tel Aviv are leading to a beautification of Rothschild boulevard without a deep transformation of its population, density, ambient and landscape. This attachment to its own culture was lacking in Israel, outside of Jerusalem. Both the Bauhaus architecture and Yafo district are valued now. This grand found for the refurbishment of historical patrimony is accessible for the public and the private owners.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for lifestyle, I sometimes miss the Tel Aviv I knew some years ago. The city ambient really changed about 5 years ago. A lot of oldest local inhabitants are not comfortable anymore. I feel that it moves too fast and not in the good direction. The dogs for example occupy a space more and more significant. The LGBT movement too bothers me. It has been radicalized lastly and do not seems to be emancipatory anymore. I feel sidelined from the city by too many social movements which impinge on the harmony of the city lifestyle. Too many people adopt a cleaving attitude under the guise of personal liberty. I\'92m wondering where this will end.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.5\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/valeriadanin/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Valeria Danin}}, Founder of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.allthingsurban.net/"}}{\fldrslt \ul All Things Urban}}\'a0&\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sfera.institute/"}}{\fldrslt \ul SFERA}}, 2020 February 24th.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell me some words about your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am Russian, graduate in Economics from the Plekhanov Russian University of Economics and in Urban Studies from the Moscow School of Social and Economics Sciences.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I have had diverse experiences as Project Manager and Marketer for Urban Innovation in Moscow, Tel Aviv, New York and London. I came a first time in Tel Aviv three years ago, but it has been hard for me at that time to adapt the cultural gap between Russia and Israel. I continued traveling, two years ago I created\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.allthingsurban.net/"}}{\fldrslt \ul All Things Urban}}\'a0from London, a career platform for urban professionals working on city challenges worldwide.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This startup experience and the envy to settle down brought me back to Tel Aviv, with a better mindset. The city is full of opportunities and I finally better appreciate this Israeli culture: there is always someone to talk to, to engage in projects to help, it makes a lot of sense when you want to launch a new enterprise.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s the projects you are now working on in Tel Aviv?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am starting\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sfera.institute/"}}{\fldrslt \ul SFERA}}, an urban innovation center based in Tel Aviv, operating on the intersection of urbanism, design, science and tech to facilitate and co-develop innovative human-centered solutions enhancing urban well-being. The first step would be to organize in april 2020 Biourbanism, a international conference in Tel Aviv gathering innovators of diverse fields \'97 urbanists, biologists, architects, programmers and designers \'97 to discuss how we can build better cities using knowledge from the natural ecosystems around us.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s the goals you are trying to achieve with this new project ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Creating a dialog between researchers, businesses and policy-makers on a local and global scale, bringing together like-minded professionals from different disciplines, has always nurished my passion for urban innovation.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With SFERA, I target to enhance urban innovation focused on well-being globally. Facilitate international knowledge exchange is the best way to give something back from what I have received along my international traveling experience. And I would like to help to place Tel Aviv on the global urbanism map.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationships do you have with other kind of stakeholders (public, private, civil society and academics) ? Who are your major supporters, investors ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are self-funded by tickets sales and have multiple non-commercial partnerships with all the stakeholders. We will need to move ahead on the objectives we set up with SFERA in order to be financed later.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is your strategy and actions for network building and community empowerment ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We both communicate, participate and organize international and local events. The best way to meet people and invite them to join our network.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The professional network previously developed with All Things Urban is of help too as a basis of international contacts.\cb1 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you target any city transformations that would be concretely experienced by the inhabitants ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Various projects on urban wellbeing\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.6\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/yoni-melamed-112600134/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Yoni Melamed}}, Director at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.thelibrary.co.il/"}}{\fldrslt \ul The Library Tel Aviv}}, 2020 February 25th.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background and how did you came to be director of The Library ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I had a four years experience as Analyst in the Israeli Intelligence Corps (army). Then I graduated in PPE \'97 Philosophy, Politics and Economics in Tel Aviv University. It trains people to take part in Public Sector, by giving them economic tools to reshape policies. I was particularly interested in urban planning and developing better policies for better cities. My first experiences in this field make me feel that it was missing of tech in public sector. So I joined\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.insights.us/"}}{\fldrslt \ul insights.us}}, both a startup and a consulting company from Jerusalem to disrupt public participation.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 They developed a platform to facilitate open discussions in civil society. Using widely open questions, not closed questions like survey studies, to get natural feedback from the citizens, and algorithms to analyse the feedback with natural language processing.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We had contracts in USA, Canada, UK, Israel, we had offices in Berlin to work with Germany and Austria. It was a good run, leading big consultation on big cities, but public sector move very slowly and pays very few. At a moment, the company have had to make a financial choice and stop the platform development to focus on consultancy contracts. I left the company, same as other colleagues. I have been contacted by Tel Aviv municipality which I worked with at insights, and they proposed me to be the director of The Library.\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Which goals are you trying to achieve with The Library ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The Library is an urban innovation center managed by the Community Department of the Municipality of Tel Aviv. We are considered as a youth center, but we host startups at early stage which try to improve life in the city. We do not call ourselves Smart-City because we do not want to be associated with infrastructure innovation only.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 What we are achieving in The library is more about facilitating communities and bringing neighborhoods together, supporting education to technology. We look for an impact on anything that could make the city better. We are inspired by the model of a City As A Service and try to implement it in Tel Aviv Municipality.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We provide our incubated startups diverse services such as mentorship, workshops, and meetings with experts and/or inhabitants. And we also orient the startups to help them find what can be really interesting for the city and the inhabitants.\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your strategy to make the city a better place to live-in ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 1. We create facilities to connect the people.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 2. We provide access to data owned by the city, we help the startups to prioritize their needs to give them the right data at the right moment and we assist them in the use of raw data.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 3. We help them to create a pilot project, to test their products in real-city situations.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Commonly, we try to make the city of Tel Aviv less expensive, by supporting a less consumer-based society\'85\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How\'92s your relationship with the other stakeholders and who are your major supporters ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As a public service, we are paid and supported by the municipality.\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you target any specific transformation of the city that would be concretely experienced by the inhabitants ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for my experience, I wanted to transform the public sector, to make it better for people and more \'93Techy\'94. This is exactly what I am doing with The Library.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I work in collaboration with CityZone, Department of Communication, and The Platform, Tel Aviv Global. We are the three main actors of the IT innovation on the city, each of us depending on a different city department. All of our operating system is a sort of big consultancy of the citizens. They are a network of innovation places working all together for the city.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 By challenging us and exchanging together, we are concretely achieving the transverse innovation out of the municipal department silos.\cb1 \
\ls6\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 As you experienced it from the startup side and now from the municipality side, what do you thing about public participation 2.0 ?Public participation and widely democratic processes will have to evolve in collaborative decision-making. Using web tools seems to be the most relevant way to do it, but no good solution has been found yet to do it at a large scale. Even if we know the need to bring the technology into democracy, the civic-tech do not bring valuable insights so far. Blockchain, AI, Machine learning are very promising but for the moment the best way to achieve citizen consultation is by analog processes such roundtables, surveys, workshops with inhabitants\'85 It is time consuming and can\'92t be scaled up because it needs a personal presence of an expert or a public servant or an animator of debate, but nothing really work so good for the moment and we have to continue to practice a little bit of everything to find the best way to do it.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zencity.io/"}}{\fldrslt \ul ZenCity}}\'a0and Insights are the biggest actors working in that field in Israel. Obviously, tech is a part of their solution but not the main part.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.7\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/shana-krakowski-9a842317/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Shana Krakowski}}, Director of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/ThePlatform.TLV/"}}{\fldrslt \ul The Platform}}, 2020 February 27th.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background and how did you came to be the Director of The Platform ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I graduated in Public Policy and Social Work. My previous experience was in Non-Governmental Organization, where we were essentially helping the most destitute populations by providing them micro-financing services and business training.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The reason why I took this mission for the municipality, as managing director of The Platform is because of the neighborhood we are settled in. This is the poorest neighborhood of the city, with a lot of poverty, marginalized people and migrants populations. So the neighbors here are more concerned about inequality and social issues.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Which goals are you trying to achieve with the Platform ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As a Municipal center for entrepreneurship and innovation, The Platform is part of this whole ecosystem, both of this poor neighborhood and of the municipality. So what we are doing here is to try to use the startups as a solution to solve social issues.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am a direct connector between the disadvantaged people and the decision-makers of the city : each time an entrepreneurial initiative is built in the neighborhood, I connect it to the city.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 To achieve 5 success a year, we need 100 lectures and events involving 500 participants. From a first event attended, some participants will join classes, the most motivated will enter an incubation phase and at the end a few are really ready for a startup success.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We have around 30.000 people living in the neighbor, about 300 are connected to The Platform. Not everyone want to become an entrepreneur. Most of the people just want to find a paid job and the education we are providing at The Platform help them a lot to upskill.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationships do you have with the other stakeholders and who are your major supporters ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our main supporter is the municipality.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are very connected to the Community Department, created 3 to 4 years ago, to create more direct contacts between the city managers and the residents. The Israeli people really appreciate this sense of community. Each area of Tel Aviv has its own staff, responsible for the fluent communication between inhabitants and public servants, so each community has its direct point of contact with the municipality.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Working out of the silos is very inherent in Israeli culture which is a lot about relationships and less about hierachies and organizations. Startups trial in Israel means to meet one person, who connects you with another and another.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your strategy and actions for network building and community empowerment ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The municipality started a program, two years ago, called \'93being active in the city\'94 for locals who want to get more involved. 20 people from each area (the city is split in North, Center-East, Center-West, South-East and South-West) benefited for 10 weeks to meet once a week with different public servants of different department of the municipality.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 They had group conversations and training on how-to propose projects, develop an idea and market it. I was teaching in one of those classes.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Anytime some startup want to talk about municipality investments and budgeting a purpose of innovation, he can meet directly the Chief Information Officer who owns the budget for IT.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The hardest step is to implicate the inhabitants and give them the envy to work with us. We communicate on Social Networks: Facebook , Whatsapp, Instagram. Finding the key people in the communities, which have the potential to bring their friends to meet us is a big goal. We call the ambassadors. Basically, after each program or each course, we have new ambassadors in the neighborhood.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We sometimes hire part-time people who have local connections. Everyone who works here in The Platform lives in the neighborhood.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you look the other startup initiative for migrants out of Tel Aviv ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Yes I look at it time to time, especially in Berlin.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But I personally interest the most in empowering the people and giving them tools that will help their all life. My mission is more education-concerned. Entrepreneurship is very risky and basically we focus more on educating marginalized people to give them the tools to integrate the tech society of Tel Aviv.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We usually help them to define the challenges to solve, to help them to know what would be useful to do for the municipality. At the same time, they shape their product or service offer in order to hit the municipality as their first client. We play the role of municipal startup incubation.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Could you benefit from using a platform for civic engagement?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Some platforms can help work easier, but the platform is not the issue. The issue is your mindset and how you work. Technology is only an expression of your attitude. Furthermore, the people who might be engaged by the online platform may not be the good persons to incubate.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The real need is more about having smart data : adata base of insights, on who is doing what and who needs what would be very useful.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The city centralize the data on inhabitants, but even as a public servant, it is not so easy, in practice, to access it.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 They are divided in different departments, with not the same rights of access. The data of Digitel for example are a lot about the interest of the residents, but do not talk about the real pains. It do not talk about racism, the cost of life, etc.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There is not one place to get the data I would need the most and I am not even sure that the right questions I would need are asked by the people who collect the data.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 So, did you try to collect your own datasets?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I tried but not systematically. I did it with surveys, oriented on my goals. I would need more time to do it or someone dedicated to this.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Or indeed a platform that could help to organize the data in order to fit better my needs. If there was a way in the daily life that we could organize the insights out of our work, it would be very useful.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The small talks and relationships are the best way to know things informally, but if you do not put it down somewhere it creates a gap in the method.\cb1 \
\ls7\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How the social issues could benefit from the municipality method to engage the people in decision-making ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There is a lot of engagement and openness of the government and between the people. But at the end of the day, there is still a gap of efficiency. Informal attitude to get direct contact with the decision makers or people in charge is very efficient, but at the end, it is necessarily a question of politics which are more concerned about this or that issue.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.8 Nimrod Goldzweig, SaronaHub, 2020 March 3rd\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background ? How did you came to work at SaronaHub ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I\'92m 20 years old, after High School, instead of military service, I chose to do a sort of civil service 1 year or 2 years. I heard about this specific place by a friend who has been accepted in the center, so I tried as well. I\'92m more centered on technology, she is more centered on coordination.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Civil service is not paid, but regarded as volunteering. We receive a place in a shared public flat with other peoples who do the same. We are 7 young people of the same age. Everything is paid (water, electricity, internet, etc. ) and we receive 800 shekel a month which is not enough to live but we still get support from the parents to start.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What is SaronaHub and what king of mission are you achieving here ?SaronaHub is about empowering young people. The whole name is Sarona Municipal Teens and Youth Center for Entrepreneurship and Technology. The age of the public is grade so middle-school and high -school so from 11 to 18 years old. They come by themselves mainly and sometimes are oriented by the school. They have heard about us by internet, social media and word to mouth.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We also have some cooperation programs with the schools. In particular we promote an Entrepreneurial Excellence Program in partnership with the Education Department of Tel Aviv which recommend our center.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 SaronaHub depends on the Department of Youth and Teens which is under the Community Department.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s the usual route for a young who come here ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 So we basically offer the open space to work, it\'92s completely free, and open on weekdays from 3 to 8 pm. They just come, without registering or asking anyone. They can come alone, with friends, to work on a project or just study their homework. We do not offer support on studies by the way.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We propose content and advice on entrepreneurship and technologies. We organize events and meetings on these topics, depending on the demand from the users in the space. We provide workshops animation, content diffusion, and professional courses on different topics : coding, entrepreneurship, design, digital marketing, industrial design, financial education, cyber-security.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your strategy to reach them and animate the young networks ?The most effective right now has been social medias : Instagram in particular (we receive and answer direct messages), secondarily Facebook and our own website, and the word to mouth works as well.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We also go to schools at the beginning of the year to present ourselves, the hub and invite the kids to come. By time to time we also organize kind of parties on our thematic. Some days ago we had 150 standing persons.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you have professional projects that come out of here ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In a wide range, yes. More are social projects and initiatives that people want to implement. For example, a high impact project from last year has been to create football teams for girls in elementary schools. It opened in 2 different schools last year and has led to a tournament. This year, 30 feminine football groups opened in the schools of the city. It\'92s a big success.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are also hosting a Composting Restaurant Program : the team is working with local restaurants and the municipality to use the compost for the gardens of Tel Aviv. They already have physical space from the municipality and some restaurants but it is not so, easy to move the trash from one place to another.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 A teen came here to study marketing and design and now he have a small service company with contractors. He did connections and branched out in this space.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you make a connection between the kids and the tech industry ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Yes, most of the contents of the meetups and workshops are for adults, so when some young from the Hub are very successful in their project, we bring them to tours in Google, Microsoft, Facebook, these companies are present in Tel Aviv, so we show this world to the kids.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 They also benefit for a mentorship if they need a specific help in a particular field.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Are you using a web platform to manage and empower your network?Actually we do not, it is kind of messy with a lot of google sheets, but I am working on a graphic database platform website : Airtable, a no-code solution.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We plan to implement it with tablets at the entrance, for the kids to enter their personal information, both connected to their profile and to the data center to assist them better.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are the main reason for a young to stop coming here?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The number 1 reason is the army, usually we they start the army they do not have time or interest to pursue what they were doing here. And before the army they start to prepare the high-school diploma, so they are also very busy at this time.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Another common reason is a lost of interest, not specifically for us, but teens explore a lot of areas, and sometimes, they want to create a startup one year, and next year they prefer to create a music band rather.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 So we try to lead the projects by community, like this if someone stops, the project can continue with the ones who still want to engage.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Theoretically, their success could be a reason to scale up and take their own offices too.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How many teens did you accompanied ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We had about 200 members who come here regularly, at least 2 times a month. Some can come twice a week but they are not always regulars, it come by phase. We are OK with this, we do not oblige anyone.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 40 to 50 projects has been accompanied widely.\cb1 \
\ls8\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What would be the next steps for the future of SaronaHub?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The city will open a similar hub in the southern part of the city to reach out the poorest class kids and empower the communities of these districts. The whole concept is evolving on more creative and makers spaces. More about game and social and giving them tools and education training.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 It is gonna be another team in the Hub but we work with them to share experience and help manage it. We offer help to say how to start. No compete with them but try to be complementary.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 SaronaHub itself think about growing because sometimes it can be very crowded : the working capacity is 56 and for event we can host 150 standing people. But we do not want to come to this day where we will have to say some kids they can\'92t enter because we\'92re full.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We would like more projects to come out of the space. Even if we do not take any fees or money, neither ask the kids to promote SaronaHub, for personal satisfaction, we would like to attract more people and help them in success. And we would like to attract kids widely, we do not want to be reserved for the kids talented in tech, genius at coding or with parents working at Google etc. We want all the kids to feel welcome to join and learn about tech and startups.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.9\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/ilanalter/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ilan Alter}}, CEO and Founder of Alter.net, mentor at Smart-City Hackathon of Haifa, 2020 March 6th\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls9\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I graduate in Business Administration at the Technion in Haifa, an engineering university. Then I worked for a company named Digital, that became Compaq and later HP.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I was managing all the computer system of the Technion and then the data-basis of the minister of people, designed 30 years ago.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In 2000 it start talking of mobility, I became CIO of a company building mobile solutions, one of the 3 major telecom companies in Israel.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 7 years ago, established my company Elternet.co.il, dealing innovation on three major verticals : smart manufacturing, smart health and smart city.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are you doing with this last company ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are working for municipalities, government, ministries. Smart-City is a largely adapted concept, each authority implementing it take it to a different direction. At the beginning, smart city was a very wide term, there were no specific declaration of what it was.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For example, in Israel we have three different frame tools to measure the cities, the three give different results. As result, a city can be considered as smart for one frame of analyse and not smart for another.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Cities who want to get smarter would benefit better from a good level of expertise to advice them in the best directions to take depending on their unique context.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How do you tackle the need for citizen engagement in Smart-City ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 It depends on how do you define the Smart-City as well. And this definition is not constant, it is always changing : there are different versions of smart city.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The last one we speak the most about is centered on the citizen indeed, but it depends on the definition you give to citizenship too.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Are you considered as a Citizen if you are born here? If you lives here? for how long ? If I rent a flat for some days or weeks or months in a city, am I considered as a citizen? And if I am already citizen of another city or country ? What happens if I have different addresses in different places at the same time ? Can I be considered as citizens in different places at the same time ? This questions led to the same usual reflection: which test, or proof of engagement, do I have to pass to be considered as a local citizen ? Then there is another reality: people like to say what they think, but sometimes, the municipality listens too much the people. We had a very bad example recently: one street was totally reconstructed, instead of 15 buildings of 20 flats, they built 15 new buildings, each of 3 times more. So from 300 houses you have now 1200 houses on the same perimeter. The most problematic issue now is parking: the municipality asked the people of the area what they wanted the most in the area. The answers was very clear : people asked for parking, a lot of parking, more parking, etc.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 However, the municipality didn\'92t had the budget or the technical solution to build it, or maybe it was just not what they wanted to do from this public spaces, and they finally didn\'92t built the parking. All the inhabitants are now very disappointed to have participate to a program that is finally not chosen. It would have been better not to ask their participation.\cb1 \
\ls9\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How do you help the municipalities to balance the stakeholders interest ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 One of the problem I am confronted in municipalities is their employees. Some of them do not understand why it is needed to make the service digital. They do not know how to integrate public services with bank apps to ease payments for examples and they do not get the interest of the young population. So the minister of digital is now proposing a program to educated the public servants in the municipality.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Considering the academic sector, it is hard to make the effective connection between their research and living experiences in the city. They do not evolve on the same agenda and speed, so I guess finally the academics do not have time to spend in implementing final user solutions in the city and do not really care about.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for my part, I am implementing a new way of thinking, called \'93best of grid\'94. It\'92s a process to help the municipalities to be free enough from corporate companies, which usually try to have long-term monopolistic contracts on the infrastructures. So I help the municipality to build the IT infrastructure by working with private companies, but keeping decision-maker about the use of the infrastructure and the data it produce. It\'92s a new typology of thinking which shows the municipality the way to take the best of the grid.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Usually a municipality do not have a lot of money and so the technical level in the municipality is very low. So we are making the smart city concept very simple for the average public servant to use it the best.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.10\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/ran-raiz-15264a104/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ran Raiz}}, CEO of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/company/insights-powering-collective-thinking/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Insights.us}}\'a0, 2020 March 11th\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls10\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I am born in a Kibbutz, I have been Commando Parachutist for 5 years. After the army I have participate to a Student Community Project to the inhabitants of the Negev and the Education Community Youth Unit in Dimona.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for studies, I learned politics, then I joined Insights 10 years ago. I\'92m not a founder but I joined them a few month after the foundation. I am now managing the company as CEO. And I passed my second degree in politics from there.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Insights now is 10 people. The staff is here in Israel but we have co-founders in Berlin and Washington. It helps for the contracts in Europe and USA but finally it is not just about translation, you need someone to understand the way the cultures work locally : civic engagement in Israel and USA or Europe is different.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your main goal to achieve ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We try to move ahead on the use of the wisdom of crowds. We do not have the tech for the moment to use it the best way, but we work on it, make experience and improve our method. The way we help collect crowd intelligence actually is more about shaping how the city managers make their work in relationship with the communities of people.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 By doing so, Insights try to bring two main values: good insights about how to improve the way to collect the outcomes, and giving Tel Aviv a feeling of shared value.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How do you engage communities ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 First you have to define what you want as outcome from the people and then you can bring the community to give this outcome. Consultation is not about proposing a choice between plan A or plan B, but you already know the one you want to implement, and you consult to manage the objections.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I\'92m looking for a way to let the people decide by wisdom, on large decisions like education, urban planning, etc.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For example, the Dov Hoz community center of Tel Aviv was not destined to be a community center for the neighborhood, it was a public property, non defined. We had the mission from the municipality to make it as a center for the surrounding inhabitants, so we started to multiply the contacts with the people, to make them consciously understand that they are a community of people living in the same area of the city, and learn from them what would be their needs to create and maintain this sense of community in the neighborhood.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We wrote this how-to bill in our blog\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.insights.us/case-studies/how-to-design-strategy-for-community-center"}}{\fldrslt \ul https://www.insights.us/case-studies/how-to-design-strategy-for-community-center}}\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Who are your major supporters ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are a private company, and we do not want to be held by investors, at least at the beginning. We did a lot of strategic projects for government and cities, so the public sector are our major supporters, but as customers, not by grants.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We develop our platform by ourselves. In 2018 we understood that we could shut down the consulting unit and focus 100% on the tech development.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We use to collaborate with companies which do the research and academic work and to promote our tools and method, to find new customers, we participate to conferences, we propose our platform. We go to conferences, to propose our product.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell me more about the way your platform works ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our business model is based on licences: the city have the right of access and a hand on organizing its own consultation by our platform. It can be about a thematic field (transport, education, environment\'85) or geographic area, neighborhood, city\'85\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 And we help them to ask the right questions and find the right people to reach out. Also to close the consultation to avoid deception from the people who participated.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We also propose an option for a workshop to train administrative employees but the platform is very intuitive so we usually do an on-the-job training by accompanying them in the implementation.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our platform do not work like a survey with open or close questions. On the main page, you have a sort of news feed, where each citizen can look what the others already said or comment. They can interact one with each other, highlight the most interesting answers. This is how we reach new ideas that makes sense, when multiple people highlighted it.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Then we can take direct contact with the people, to remind them what they liked, confirm with them what they said. And we can aggregate the different messages, ideas, we make connections between each participants and the best highlights. The participant is asked to confirm by yes or no if it makes sense to cluster him with this or that consensus idea.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you target any city transformation that would be directly experienced by the citizen ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our platform is not a communication tool, nor only a tool to prepare elections, it rather solve a change of mores in the way to do politics with citizens, with the aim to be more transparent and accessible.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As from our point of view, this change of mores in the way to practice politics is much more regularly made by woman mayors. They propose a new way, more open, more collaborative, to do improve city governance.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We work for 10 years, and the change needs time, especially in the culture of crowd and in public sector. The city managers still needs more time to understand that the citizens can help in managing the city, not just by stopping the process at the end when all decisions are already taken but do not make consensus. When the mayor understand it starts to be interesting.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Which are the next steps of your development ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are moving ahead on two tech directions: a pilot for Whats\'92App in order to collect participation by this way, and we also look for improving the way to learn from project to projects. We always try to make the consultation better from one city to another. We look for a better and better ability to analyse the data collected.\cb1 \
\ls10\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you thing one civic-tech tool like yours could covered the whole world ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I do not think so, our business model is not like Facebook or other B2C app. As a B2B, the scale is slow, there is a place for competition, and the market of consultation is different from one place to another in the world.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We start to look at the private business customers : we recently started a consultation for a transportation company. We are the unique suppliers for this kind of service here in Israel. We have challengers, of course, but not about the tech, the competition is more about catching the client.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.11\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/dr-jeremie-hoffmann-a881827b/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Jeremie Hoffmann}}, Head of Conservation Department of Tel Aviv Municipality, 2020 March 12th\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls11\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I live in Tel Aviv since I\'92m 4 years old. After 5 years at the military service in IT, I studied history of architecture at the University Paris 1 Sorbonne and passed a doctoral degree with a thesis on the history of Tel Aviv City.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 At that time, I felt the need to build an external point of view on ourselves as Israelis.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Now I\'92m the director of the Conservation Department of Tel Aviv Municipality, so my field is very specifically the patrimony of the city.\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your goal as for the conservation of the heritage in Tel Aviv Architecture ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In my thesis, I insisted on the fact that it is feasible to collect information by informal means: I\'92m using books for children and movies to detect the representation of Tel Aviv city in the popular culture. The themes on which we lean the story telling of a city or a subject can be very interesting and say a lot. These wide tools are very new for the historians.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I can see a parallel with social networks, which are a new way to access information on the people, on the city, on a subject of interest.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We actually struggle hard to access information about how the people maintain or keep their patrimony.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 First, this culture of the material conservation is not very Jewish : the Jewish culture is a lot about the written memories, the Book, and a culture of oral transmission, but far from the building heritage. This can be explained because of the exile at the core of Judaism. Because the people move, travel, they didn\'92t created an habit to maintain the building.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Secondly, the Synagogue in the architecture is not valued like a church would be for example. The aesthetic of the Holy places in Judaism are considered as Anti-Religious, somehow.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Thirdly, the property is not a Jewish cultural element, because it is linked to the agriculture and the sedentary life-style, so a farmer will conserve the property of a house to pass on its family. In medieval architecture in France and in small villages especially, the relationship between the church and the village houses is almost sacred. In Judaism, the houses are not built around the synagogue.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This traditional cultural trait of Judaism changes at the establishment of the State of Israel. It becomes the first moment in the Jewish history where we create a relationship with the territory. The first step was to build, and then the deep reflections on the idea of patrimony emerge in the 90's.\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of influence do you target on the city by your work ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 My thesis prove that a descriptive element of a city (Tel Aviv White City, Tel Aviv the Non-stop city\'85 ) comes sometime from inside (an administrative work) sometime from the outside (influences outside of work : travel, culture, articles in magasines, meeting interesting people\'85). Moreover, inside the administrative machinery itself, there are moments of openness or closeness in regard to foreign influences.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In the municipality, even if Israeli use the Tech a lot, they do not read English a lot, so the foreign influence is not very common.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Furthermore, the Israeli society is closed historically because of its building inside an unfriendly environment.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 On the capacity to unify the population, the Hebrew language makes a lot. The language is designed for short sentences, very directs, oriented on efficiency. But so to deal with complex issues, it can be limited.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The Hebrew we speak nowadays is based on the Biblical one, but it is new by the way. Influenced by a war context and the seek for survival as priority number one. Now we are not anymore in this survival context, but the language is still influenced by it. We are trying to evolve progressively by a research center.\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How do you reach out the people and build community of inhabitants around your conservation work in the city of Tel Aviv ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Roughly, there is the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.lieblinghaus.org/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Liebling House \'97 White City Center}}, a new institution to create links between the population and the architectural and cultural heritage. We widely create links by education, research, artistic exchanges, exhibitions, events, etc.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We create systems where the people will learn about the values of the city, the elements, the histories and legends. All the schools of the Municipality are engaged in this program: we are creating a generation conscious about the patrimony heritage. The next generation will have the tools to engage more in the conservation. It is a long-term project, somehow old-school because I think that for life-long changes, education is more efficient than an app which can influence the behavior of course but for some years only.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for Research, we try to have more information on the civil aspect of the patrimony : the trees, the parks, the public spaces, the history of architecture. We anchor these information on the centralized map of the municipality, to make these layers it accessible at a wider scale to the whole inhabitants. I published a book on the Brutalist Architecture of Israel, published by the municipality. It is a sort of repository of all the buildings of this style, with the most information collected on each building. I creates a databasis, physical, to ease the exchange between the inhabitants and the administration. People can understand better my work, and contact me to know more or ask me to talk about it in conference etc. This book is available in all the libraries, it is 100% scientific, historic and neutral. This is not a public communication influenced by marketing or political goals on the population.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I try to develop the idea that each public institutions, should have their own R&D centers, like the corporate companies have.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In practice, the public sector have a lot of data about the city but do not know how to use it at all.\cb1 \
\ls11\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What would be the next steps for the conservation department ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are now at the pass on between two generations: an old-school one who work on plans by reaching people directly, and a new one which works mainly with data and computational analyses. This gap is not about age but rather about the tools used. (cf. my article on phenomenology)\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I\'92m now looking at the open-source software\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.archesproject.org/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Arches Project}}\'a0from the Columbia university, founded by\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.getty.edu/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Getty Conservation Institute}}, the biggest resource for history of architecture. The software allows crowd-sourced contribution to the repertory of patrimonial architecture in the cities, now extended to histories and legend about a place in the city, about songs, peoples\'92 habbits etc. I start working on this software in Tel Aviv, we are now at the adaptation of it for our public, for wider questions than only the historical neighborhoods.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Indeed, we have 52 neighborhoods in Tel Aviv but a lot of them are empty in the regard of emblematic architecture. I do not want to give them an identity in the old fashioned way, which means sending some expert to look at which nice house or corner of the street we could use to make them iconic. I would like the people of the neighborhoods to do it by themselves, by sharing histories of their life in the area.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I\'92m also looking at a planning simulation tool which could acknowledge the people on the effect of this or that choice in terms of urban planning. It would help them be conscious about the fact of the city, the society issues, and the secondary effects of their ideas on the life of the others.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 For the moment the gap between virtual and real-life is too large to use this kind of tools in decision-making.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But I bet on the future to give the people the tools they need to make them participate and pass on the information to decision-makers.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I do not trust the theories which say that we will automate everything and do not need a leader at the end. At least in practice, we will always need for someone responsible as regard of the taking decisions, writing the law, etc. There is always a moment where the professional is asked to give an advice or share his point of view that will go deeper than the average shared skill on a topic, even if they grow more and more.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 At the end, a vision is always needed as a system on which to lean the future planning.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.12\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/eyalfeder/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Eyal Feder-Levy}}, CEO of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zencity.io/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Zen-City}}, 2020 March 12th\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls12\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I\'92m 33 years old, I\'92m born in Boston, USA and have been raised in Tel Aviv.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I have been a soldier of the unit 8200 for 5 years, afterward I spent time in social support : I managed\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://thegardenlibrary.org/"}}{\fldrslt \ul The Garden Library}}, an NGO center for education, culture and art located in the work migrant neighborhood Neveh Sha\'92anan in south of Tel Aviv. I had there amazing experiences with the refugees, but I wanted to build something from the ground, I started to consider entrepreneurship. I passed a bachelor degree in Computer Science at Tel Aviv University, and a master degree in Urban Planning.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I came soon to the Smart-City concept and the use of data to improve cities. I have been part of the founding team of the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en-urban.tau.ac.il/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Urban Research Center of Tel Aviv University}}\'a0and I managed the institute for one year. I met my co-founder there, and created a startup to make a bigger impact than in the academic. We started with an Hackathon in Tel Aviv Municipality, we built a transit app, and then three more ideas that failed. After three years of failing companies, we created ZenCity and started with a first customer in Eilat, a small city in the south of Israel.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We raised 1.7 million USD in 2017, the goal was to enter the US market. Our first customer in USA was\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sacramento"}}{\fldrslt \ul Sacramento}}, capital city of California.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We had about 10 customers in 2018, and raised 6 million USD from the Israeli venture capital\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.vertexventures.co.il/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Vertex}}\'a0to expand the product. We are now working with 120 cities in USA and Israel, 1 in Canada and 1 in Bosnia.\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are the underlying goals of ZenCity ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We believe that local governments are very poor in organization and but they still have a huge impact on our lives : both directly and indirectly.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 They have a big challenge to make the inhabitants lives better, and they spend huge budget for it. So we try to make them realize that and to be more sensitive to their responsibility on the lives of the people. For example, Tel Aviv spend 3.5 Billion Shekel a year, they hire 12.000 civil employees to work for the city, but they have no idea if they are doing a good job or not. I mean, they do not have any tools, like key performance indicators, to evaluate the efficiency and the quality of their politics. Once deployed, they can\'92t check directly how people are happy or not.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 So we propose scalable, real-time analysis on the feelings of the people.\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 How do you take contact with the people to provide these analyses ?We develop a platform linked to the API of the main social networks : Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Reddit, LinkedIn.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We use automatic translation and natural language processing to analyse the publications and the online exchanges of the people of a targeted area.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The service is only B2B, we dedicate our tool to municipalities, we do not make any B2C. We are not so many doing that :\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://citibeats.net/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Citibeats}}\'a0is a Spanish competitor.\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your vision for Smart-City ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I do not believe so much in the Smart-City concept itself. I think it is more a sort of portmanteau word to attract institutional interests and investments. But for sure, we definitely need to add digital tools and data tools to the toolbox of governments and municipalities, to improve their processes and finances.\cb1 \
\ls12\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Zencity do not need any network engagement, am I right ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Indeed, the people are passive in our model : we collect the public data they spread on the web while they do not even know that we are doing it. We provide a cyber-governance tool, absolutely\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation"}}{\fldrslt \ul GDPR}}\'a0compliant.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 By the way, I come from the bottom-up approach of urban science, and I apply it by building a bridge helping the people to influence the decisions of the local governments. Even if our customer is the one influenced rather than the influencers themselves. By delivering a service to the municipality, we offer a service to the citizens.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.13\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/yossidan/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Yossi Dan}}, co-founder and board member of the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://israelsmartcities.org/"}}{\fldrslt \ul ISCI \'97 Israel Smart-Cities Institute\'a0}}and co-founder of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://israel.lafrenchtech.com/"}}{\fldrslt \ul French Tech Tel Aviv}}.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls13\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I\'92m born and have been raised in Paris, France. I came in Israel in 1985 to join the army and then I followed international marketing studies.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I started my career in software market, to develop\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adobe_Inc."}}{\fldrslt \ul Adobe System}}\'a0in Israel. I animated startups and became founder and director of the startup accelerator\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://fi.co/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Founder Institute}}\'a0in 2012.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I\'92m now consultant in open innovation for 6 years. I outreach international companies with Israeli startups.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I created the first urban innovation lab in Israel in 2016 in\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harish,_Israel"}}{\fldrslt \ul Harish}}. I won a European project H2020 called IoT EPI by identifying in 20 cities, some projects mature enough for Proof of Concepts in the city and co-developed it by Public-Private-Partnership.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Now, I\'92m currently creating the first open innovation lab in Tel Aviv, supported by\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bouygues"}}{\fldrslt \ul Bouygues}}\'a0and another industrial company, to work on Smart-City, mobility, safety and sustainable development, agritech and foodtech. It will be the fruit of my consultant work but also of some project from the ISCI.\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Which goals do you plan to achieve with these developments ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 My main objective is to build a sand-box for corporate companies and cities to work together in identifying the technological talents the most early as possible. This is the actual missing piece of the puzzle, because neither cities nor enterprises manage to work together with startups, it means too many risk and instability right now. So we want to reduce the unceasing noise out of the too high quantity of startups, by filtering them earlier and identify sooner the ones providing the best quality of innovation that makes the better sense for a city, and give the management to the key accounts from corporate wish know exactly how to deploy the projects.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In Israel we have the luck to have almost 300 innovation labs supported by international corporate companies, and I want to use this network to bring more corporate in Israel, in capacity to deploy\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vertical_integration"}}{\fldrslt \ul vertical integration}}.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 With the Open Innovation Lab, we want to experiment in Israel and co-develop the solutions through corporate networks outside of Israel who want to import the Israeli technologies. To achieve this, co-design or design partnership seems to be one of the keys needed to unlock the power of entrepreneurs to change the world by changing the biggest corporate companies.\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What kind of relationship do you have with other stakeholders, and who are your major supporters ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We don\'92t have any relationship with the academicians: in Israel the Public-Private partnerships are the basis of the whole tech market. It helps to proof-test interesting projects in real-life conditions with a small budget, and attract investors and financial partners. There are plenty of Public-Private Partnerships, but there are no mechanisms to regulate this tech deployment or to force cities to buy startup products.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for civil society, it is very active in Israel, especially in times of crisis. Even if the state spends a lot in the army, the network of civil association is big and efficient.\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your strategy for network building and community empowerment ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Some years ago, I created\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/Founders-Cafe/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Founders Cafe}}, which grew up to a community of more than 2200 members. This is my talent\'92s engine in tech now. We organize a lot of meetups and events to push the selected members to integrate amid customers.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 To make the people meet themselves, we deploy regular tech challenges, from which we select the companies we are interested by (e.g.100 out of 6.000) Then we filter them again to work deeper with 12 only and finally we build a project with 2 or 3.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We did it in the past, and we want to do the same in cities, but the main difficulty to achieve it is intern. We can\'92t be top-down in this market, it is needed to test, exchange a lot and leverage by giving the hand to many people. So we want to create a place where finally the mayor can be aware on the people who talk to him.\cb1 \
\ls13\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Can you tell me some words about the French Tech Israel ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In France, though the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bpifrance"}}{\fldrslt \ul public investment bank BPI}}, the state supports the innovative enterprises. In Israel, the public sector never invest in startups, what they propose is to double the private investments at certain conditions. By the way France and Israel do not apply the same definition for startups: in France all enterprises which works in tech or the internet is considered as a startup, whatever its business model or potential scalability. In Israel they look at the potential sustainability of the business first. Finally it is considered that there are 10.000 startups in France and 6.000 in Israel but it is very different.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 When Macron was the French Minister of the Economy, the first project of French Tech started, the co-founders of FT Israel started, about 4 or 5 years ago.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The projects was in the hands of politics, embassies etc. depending of the ministry. Last year a new committee changed the management to let the decisions to local entrepreneurs, supported by politics which do not decide anymore. French Tech Israel has been validate again by the new deciders. We are working on a big event for the France-Israel Innovation. we are waiting the end of the corona crisis to see how it goes.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The objectives are not only to bring the French corporate companies in Israel, but also to link French startups to co-design solutions with Israeli startups. As a final goal, we would like to see how the Israeli startup can use France as an entrance door to deploy Israeli tech in the whole Europe.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 2.4.14\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/yael-malatskey-7842ab64/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Yael Malatskey}}, Head of Innovation at\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.city-zone.co/"}}{\fldrslt \ul CityZone}}\'a0and organizer of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/CityZoom-Urban-Innovation-Community/"}}{\fldrslt \ul CityZoom Urban Innovation Community}}, 2020 March 23rd\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls14\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your personal background ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I started to work at the Ministry of Economy : there are innovative missions to strength the relationships between the government, the economy and the actors in the different industries : agronomy, education, etc. I have been in charge with the Smart-City mission. Then I worked for\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WeWork"}}{\fldrslt \ul WeWork}}, in charge of partnership at the national scale. I created a lot a relationships, my job was to connect personally with people and link them together. At this moment, I understood that I really like to understand the personality of my contacts, and try to find the best way to connect them well with the whole innovative ecosystem.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Now I\'92m the head of the innovation ecosystem management at CityZone, an innovation lab established as a cooperation between Tel Aviv Municipality, Tel Aviv University and Business Park Kiryat Atidim Tel Aviv.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We went in\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.smartcityexpo.com/fr/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Smart-City Expo World Congress}}\'a0in Barcelona last year, our boss Gabi did a keynote intro to present CityZoom Urban Innovation Community.\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What are the goals behind Citizoom Civic Hacking Community ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 CityZoom is a small thing in a huge ecosystem of animation around CityZone. By civic hacking we promote the use of open platforms of government and cities to address problems with hackers and programmers. We organized a Hackathon which was not referring to all political issues : it was based on the data available online. This was part of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.hasadna.org.il/en/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Hasadna for public knowledge}}, idea to take data and knowledge from government and create an open line to programmers so they can work on it. Most of the participants to the Hackathon have their week jobs so it didn\'92t gave so many startup pursuing afterward.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 CityZone is a sand box for all tech trying to integrate the city. In our living lab we are also operating a startup program, during which startups test their products, get access to data, combine with each others etc. We are public but we work as a company: we rise venture capital, and we constantly look for partner cities in the world.\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What\'92s your strategy to build network and empower your community ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The strategy is very basic : it consists in taking contact with the most of people by knocking at their doors. It\'92s not sales by the way, even if I fix goals for myself like \'9350 startups needs to join this event\'94. The network management asks for understanding the motivation of the partners, what are they looking for, who can be the most beneficial for their startups etc. It\'92s needed to be active, to talk a lot, to have skills of network builder and of connector. It\'92s kind of hard to explain the magic\'85 I work like an automate : I know what I have to do to make it happen, so I do it naturally, without thinking. As a child I was living in a army base : both my parents where soldiers. So I spent my childhood moving over the country and changing school often. You always have to find friends, to integrate in groups of people you do not know\'85 I probably developed skills to map the people, to identify who is the king of the classroom, to evaluate the others and find a way to maintain good relationships. This is probably the best education for being a network manager.\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Do you target any city transformations that would be concretely experienced by the inhabitants ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Cityzone host almost 40 challengers dealing with transportation and mobility. So yes our ecosystem of startups target very material change on the city. As I can follow their progression, I can imagine that they will make a big exponential growth in automatic transportation. Mobility is a hug issue in Tel Aviv : there are about 1.5 million people commuting everyday in the city, 3 times more than the residents which are about 500K. This is a big challenge, asking for a lot of infrastructure, data and urban planning. At Citizone, we look for potential startup to solve this problem. At a mainstream scale, the concept Mobility As A Service tries to avoid private transportation on the city.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 It is relevant to notice here that there are two main categories of startups working on urban issues. The ones promoting the Smart-City model, which usually work at a larger scale, trying to sell new IT infrastructure to the local governments and city managers, and the urban tech providers who have different business model : they sell some products to the residents directly, and they have an impact on the city transformation too. They also collect a lot of information and knowledge about the needs and habits of the inhabitants, the shop owners, the small businesses, etc.\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 In some place in the world, we can hear some bashing against the startups, the digital innovation etc. Is it a problem you have to deal with ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our job is not to communicate with residents, this is the role of the municipality. What we do the most in terms of communication to ease innovation processes, is to selves as a translator between the city employees and the startups, to make each other understandable. This is very funny because they both speak Hebrew, but this is not the same language by the way. So we usually have to write the same email in two different Hebrew language for both the two concerned parts of the agreement to understand each other.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 When we are confronted to people who have problem on the ground, we have to explain them what we are doing to solve their issue. It\'92s a lot about communication methodologies. But Tel Aviv is a tech bubble, so most residents are tech oriented, and it\'92s obvious for them to trust technology. Another problem for new startups is that from a city manager point of view, corporate companies are very stable, and resilient in facing crisis like the Covid-19 for example. So the municipality will more easily tend to work with them rather that new actors, even if it\'92s more expensive.\cb1 \
\ls14\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Are you using some digital platforms to connect with community and animate the network ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Yes we use an Ecosystem Relationship Management called ClickSoftware. It is an Israeli company now owned by Salesforce. It helps to learn from other cities too. But I mainly use my phone, and pen with notebook to meet people in person. I hate video meetings, this is not the same feeling.\cb1 \
}