{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Charter-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red31\green31\blue31;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red98\green98\blue98;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c16078\c16078\c16078;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c80000;
\cssrgb\c45882\c45882\c45882;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 2.4.1\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/okodavaasuren/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Oko Davaasuren}}, Community Leader of the Startup Accelerator\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.techstars.com/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Techstars}}, 2019 December 12th\cf4 \strokec4 , \cf5 \strokec5 The interview of Oko Davaasuren has been done in\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://taiwanarena.tech/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Taipei Tech Arena}}, during the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.facebook.com/StartupWeekTaiwan/?eid=ARCekegnUsas3TKBYVD1U-5ABN-f2VrnB9dY8yFNkolzIi-gRNygzffgTYkIylHYEHnLSTkzsxlq-q_2"}}{\fldrslt \ul Taipei Startup Week}}.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 1. Can you tell me some words about your personal background, and how did you came into this actual position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Before: I was working for the APEC in Communities Development in Asia\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Now: I\'92m doing quite the same job with Techstars, with a business development scope of application.\
2. What are you doing as for network building and community empowerment with Techstars ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Techstars provide a systematic approach to build ecosystems of startups. Which means endeavor support on all entrepreneurial initiative. Besides of what we are actually driving an extensive research on social graphs to understand the dynamics between our ecosystems stakeholders, in order to find a way to better engage everyone. This data analysis should be published to the community in mid-January.\
3. What kind of relationships do you have with other kind of stakeholders (public, private, civil society and academics)? Who are your major supporters, investors ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Techstars Taipei is support by the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ministry_of_Science_and_Technology_(Taiwan)"}}{\fldrslt \ul MOST \'97 Ministry of Science and Technology of Taiwan}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://taiwanarena.tech/"}}{\fldrslt \ul TTA \'97 Taiwan Tech Arena}}, and\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qualcomm"}}{\fldrslt \ul Qualcomm}}.\
We put a priority on building a strong private sector support because of their level of expertise, their financial capacities and power of influence on the whole ecosystem. For startups and entrepreneurs, the final goal is always to satisfy the needs of a customer. Corporate companies have huge experience and valuable knowledges on their markets and clients needs, so their support in startup ecosystems is central.\
4. What would be your strategy to achieve this goal ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 What we want to do in local communities is to coach local influencers to hand over the lead of the ecosystem to them.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In this regard, we just launched a new website named\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://taiwanstartup.community/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Taiwan Startup Community}}\'a0that we will promote before leaving the management to the local members of the startup ecosystem of Taiwan.\
5. Do you have any interaction with the city field and do you target any city transformations where you implement your startup ecosystems ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I assume startup ecosystems can have an influence among city transformations, especially when the Startup Accelerator is specialized in the Smart-City thematic, like Techstars Amsterdam, but our main goal is not to transform cities. We dedicate our work to develop entrepreneurship.\
6. Some people and social movements, engaged against the liberalization of the economy, can fall into startup bashing . What\'92s your point of view on that type of reaction ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 By my work I have met a lot of people coming from poor family conditions. The social empowerment by the startup movement whom which citizens and youth in particular can benefit is priceless. All the skills they are learning by startup experience is huge: story telling, business development, self-fulfillment, global education, ambition, career building \'85 Entrepreneurship is a real way of life achievement and empowerment for many people.\
Some generations before had the music movements, like rock bands, to learn by experiment and build a living. Art and fashion were ways to do the same : it structured and empowered whole generations of youth. Nowadays, startup movement and digital entrepreneurship is the worldwide movement to help the young people of our generation who want to keep their heads above water, learn things and make a society.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 2.4.2\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://mic.iii.org.tw/english/Analysts_Detail.aspx?sqno=S0970705"}}{\fldrslt \ul Edward Lin}}, Senior Industry Analyst of the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://mic.iii.org.tw/english/"}}{\fldrslt \ul MIC \'97 Market Intelligence and Consulting Institute}}, 2019 December 13th\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \strokec5 The MIC is a branch of the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://web.iii.org.tw/"}}{\fldrslt \ul III \'97 Institute for Information Industry}}\'a0of Taiwan\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 1. Can you tell me some words about your personal background, and how did you came into this professional position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I have been graduated in the Taipei University of Technology. I\'92m working as researcher and market analyst for 11 years.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 At the beginning of my career, I was working on Smart-Phones and Smart-Devices. In 2013, Taiwan government proposed a Smart-City project and I started to re-orient my research in this direction.\
2. Do you have some examples of concrete achievements in Smart-City field you participated to ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The \'93Smart Urban-Rural Project\'94 of the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.moea.gov.tw/MNS/english/home/English.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ministry of the Economic Affairs}}\'a0of Taiwan planned to invest 6 Billion NTD in this field and had to identify their needs: Smart-Transportation, Smart-Lightening in Streets (we notably implement a system of 1-by-1 identification of street lights, to improve maintenance by less ground recognition of the public workers)\
3. How are you organized, and what kind of support do you have from other stakeholders of Smart-City field?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We recognize ourselves as an official governmental think tank: the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://mic.iii.org.tw/english/"}}{\fldrslt \ul MIC \'97 Market Intelligence and Consulting Institute}}\'a0depends on the{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://web.iii.org.tw/"}}{\fldrslt \ul \'a0III \'97 Institute for Information Industry}}. We work as a non-profit private sector research by teams of 7, each of us specialized in a topic: energy, agriculture, retail, health, transportation\'85 and publish books and reports of our results of research.\
We receive public grants to help the government in strategical decision-making among the technology of information field. We also receive some private founds from our consulting branch. Actually 70% to 80% of our founding comes from the government of Taiwan, but private industries supports us to have an access to collaborative construction of national rules on their markets.\
4. Smart-City is often considered as a concept for experts, hard to understand by the average people. Don\'92t you think ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Yes, I would say not only the people: it is hard to make it understandable to public servants too. Many local governments don\'92t know a lot neither.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Before 2013 no one knew Smart-City concept. Now Taipei City is working on it for quite a long time and have much more experience to share.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In practice, the national government budgets are rather dedicated to the capital city of Taiwan (Taipei City).\
6. This expert gap makes civil engagement in Smart-City really hard. How do you define your role and what kind of relationship to you have with the other stakeholders of Smart-City ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Building a Smart-city and decision-making in urban planning asks for a certain level of expertise. The average people have a good knowledge of what they need in everyday life but do not really think about how new technologies work and how it can help them.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 But government knows how new technologies can improve public services in hospitals, universities, factories\'85 and they do it. As for experts, this is our job to chose which technology is good for society and make them understand how to use it the simplest way. This expert gap is the same for IoT and 5G.\
What is the most important to maintain good relationships between experts, government and citizens is transparency. Even if most of citizens do not look for it, it is important that the one who want to understand better the choices we did on technology for society can access all the information he needs. Our roadmap of the decisions planned for the next two years are fully transparent and available to everyone.\
7. A wide majority of people are daily internet users. They get more informed about politics and more concerned by decision-makers. Social medias are also used to grow critics against powers and becomes the best stand for political oppositions. How much do you think it can affect your mission ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This is the main difference between democracies and central powers. In Taiwan, like in most of European countries, we have to face every day critics of the government by the people. Decision-making and the deployment of new technologies are necessarily slow down by these social movements but there too I think that transparency of governance is the best answer.\
8. Smart-City developers promote a citizen-centric model of city, sometimes assisted by participative governance platforms to implicate people in decision-making. What about you ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We consult entrepreneurs and local governments of Taiwanese cities by interviews, to answer the best to the consultation missions given to us by the state.\
We also organize an internal annual event where all members and employees propose ideas to improve our organization. A lot of organizational innovation is collected every year on this event.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our employees work by groups to propose ideas by presentation to the whole organization. We use the auditorium of the National Taiwan University to pool everyone at the same place (200 employees at the MIC and more than 2000 in the 6 institutes of the whole III) It is also a good way for internship students to train make good public and a way for the company to identify the best potential recruit.\
We do not really need for an online open platform of consultation: we have an informational website for extern and an efficient intern communication inside the institute: anyone can contact anyone by direct email. In the III they also have an intern platform to refer issues to the managers.\
9. What kind of digital feature is the most interesting to improve the relationship between your organization and the web users ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our web managers collect useful information on the key-words researched by the users of our websites (ex. 5G\'85) It helps us to identify what\'92s the main interest of the public on our research and gives a guideline to our reports to publish. In practice, our research reports are often used by students, researchers, and entrepreneurs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 2.4.3\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://techerati.com/expert/dr-chen-yu-lee/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Chen-Yu Lee}}, Director of\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://smartcity.taipei/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Smart Taipei \'97 Taipei Smart-City Project Management Office}}, 2019 December 17th\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \strokec5 Taipei Project Management Office (TPMO) has a dedicated mission to Smart-City\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 1. Can you tell me some words about your personal background, and how did you came into this professional position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I majored in computer science, and PhD in Artificial Intelligence. I have a technical background of education. I started my career as consultant for the government. I spent 10 years working for the III \'97 Institute for Information Industry, then took a break of some months to manage a small enterprise and joined the TCG six years ago. Smart-Taipei is an independent branch of the Department of Information Technology of Taipei City Government.\
In my career I spent a lot of time helping universities and schools, by national e-learning project (national program to help industries and schools or universities) to understand what is Smart-Learning and promote it. I focus on Smart-City for 6 years now, because I think it\'92s crucial to help the government (both national and locals) to have a better understanding of what\'92s the best things to do in terms of society.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Smart-City is a concept far different from pure technology. The consequences of choices among the people and the quality of living are big.\
2. Do you have some examples of concrete achievements in Smart-City field you participated to ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 There are 22 major cities in Taiwan. Kinman is one of the smallest but also one of the richest because of its industry. They were the first of Taiwan to invest in Smart-City equipment. Not a big success to be honest because it was the beginning of the model and they didn\'92t really know what to do in the lack of concrete feedback on the concept. They took the first direction of the Smart-City developers which consisted in deploying a lot of tech on infrastructures, and it didn\'92t work so well than expected.\
Later we started to think about a new definition of the Smart-City, in collaboration with Amsterdam City, and enlarge our vision to a wider problematic than a technology-only \'93How to build a new system of city?\'94\
3. How are you organized, and who are you major supporters ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We started to work as a team of 15 and we are now 20 in my team. We dedicate our mission to help Taipei City and citizens to adapt to the new technologies.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We continuously work with the Mayor of Taipei for more than 4 years and have a very good collaboration with him because we share a similar vision of the City.\
4. Smart-City is often considered as a concept for experts, hard to understand by the average people. How can you tackle this ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The term Smart-City is vague: it includes a little bit of everything so it is even more complex.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Globally the population and the public services do not have the same idea of what a Smart-City is, and this difference in definition creates problems. We spend our time to deal with the people to make them understand what is a Smart-City.\
Deploying Smart-Solutions is not enough to obtain a Smart-City: it takes a lot of time to deal with the whole system. In practice, a lot of new technology fail. From our point of view, if the city government invest in a technology, it MUST be successful. We can not tolerate a risk of uncertainty at the large scale of public services. Sometimes we prefer to chose oldest solutions, because they have more maturity and there is no risk of investment loss. Our mission at Smart-Taipei is to suggest the mayor a technology vision which contains no risk of failure.\
5. Smart-City developers promote a citizen-centric model of city, sometimes assisted by participative governance platforms to implicate people in decision-making. How do you create a relationship with the population at Smart-Taipei ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Our first year we spent a lot of time to interact with the citizens, by different means. But in Asia the citizens do not implicate too much in politics. The people do not really interest in how it the things are done, but rather in the final result and they want expect from the governments that what they do produces results.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We started Smart-Taipei with an online open platform which didn\'92t worked at all. So we chose to organize many live events and offer gifts to the people to implicate them. It\'92s an old method which have produces much more results.\
6. So which are the main trends you have been able to identify by this way of citizen consultation ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 It turns out that the population is interested by waste collection, urban parks and leisure areas. They interested in road traffic fluidity and parking spaces available, but they are not interested in the system.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 From that point we realized that our first mission were not to make the people think about \'93Smart-City\'94. We are not a public service properly speaking and our role is not to communicate directly with citizens. Indeed we collect information out of the people and we help the department to find the best solutions adapted to people\'92s needs.\
The ideal model of collaborative society, with engaged citizens in decision-making and the use of bottom-up collective intelligence as political process do not work in Taipei City.\
But we still need for new innovative solutions. For that we turn to the industry. We take direct contact with them to understand how the provate market can deliver concrete creativity on issues identified by the government and the people. Public services do not want to have a direct contact with the industrials to not be suspected for illegal interest, lobby or corruption. So our office serve as a bridge between the industry and the government: we help the public sector to access the information from private sector.\
7. So, do you also serve as a bridge between the private sector and the civil society ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Yes indeed, we help the industrials to interact with the citizens by physical events. For example, we recently organized a promotional event for a Smart-Scooter service in Taipei (note from the author: Gogoro)\
In Taipei, the city council is very powerful and efficient as a political tool. Most of the citizens prefer to answer it that to the industrials, so the people use the city council to forward issues, concerns, etc. rather than taking direct contact with private companies. Regarding the technology topic and Smart-City, we have been forwarded for a strong concern by the population on data privacy. As for public reaction, strict rules have been edited by the government and all the industrials who collect data on their users have to respect it.\
8. Most of the Smart-City industrials actually promote web platforms featuring different functionalities to take direct contact with the citizens. What kind of digital tools do you think it would help in your mission ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As I said earlier, we do not use online platform anymore: our first experience didn\'92t worked and it is not our primary mission. But some other departments of the TCG use their own, they build their own digital engagement tools like online voting.\
At Smart-Taipei our main concern actually is: how to make the citizens feel that Smart-Solutions are interesting for them and they should use it ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We notably recently had to use services from a French company specialized in scanning public buildings to give an expertise on refurbishment. It have been very useful and relevant to take time and use public budget for this mission, that we used not only on the public buildings but also public bridges.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 This is not a secret but no one really knows because no one people really care about it. However it was a very important mission from the public sector to secure the population and their common patrimony.\
For this kind of decision, we mostly need the support of the mayor rather than the support of the population: it has had an important cost and most of the people would have probably criticized the amount of money spent in it.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In practice, the population is not necessarily of a great help on technical subjects, even the very important ones. We can\'92t lean on the population wishes only, even when the mission is about their direct interest or security.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 As for my concern, the Smart-City model can\'92t focus on the citizens only, but on all stakeholders to take balanced decisions which respects the needs of everyone. So we ARE this collaborative platform for stakeholder engagement.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 2.4.4\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.linkedin.com/in/laurent-le-guyader-37b84b41/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Laurent Le Guyader}}, Vice-president of the Startup Ecosystem\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://taiwan.lafrenchtech.com/"}}{\fldrslt \ul La French Tech Taiwan}}, 2019 December 18th.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \strokec5 La French Tech is a label among French communities worldwide. In Taiwan it is based in Taipei Tech Arena\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 1. Can you tell me some words about your personal background, and how did you came into this professional position ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 I lived in P\'e9kin et Shanghai, China, for 8 years, before moving to Taipei 4 years ago. In 2016, I started to work for the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://france-taipei.org/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Bureau Fran\'e7ais de Taipei}}\'a0with a mission on innovation. My role was to identify interesting technologies and make a connection with French enterprises. In the other direction, I also had to help the French companies to foothold and cooperate with Taiwanese tech.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 The French Office of Taipei receive very diverse missions, as for me I had among other missions to assure the labeling of the French Community of Startups in Taiwan. What happened some month after my arrival.\
2. What\'92s the French Tech ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In 2014 a brand is created by communities of startups in 14 French cities, including Paris. The next year, 2015, has been the year of an expand of the brand on major foreign cities, international innovative and financial places where French startups started to gather (London, \'85)\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In 2016 the French Tech started to label big hubs worldwide (Vietnam, Taiwan, Hong-Kong\'85)\
In France and abroad, local communities started to use the brand to get more visibility on their startups, even without being labeled. At the contrary, some labeled communities where not necessarily very active on their territory, so the French Tech went into a re-structuration of its network and re-centered on its primary missions: recruit talents, help raising founds, open the access to markets abroad. This restructuration has been finalized at the beginning of 2019, and come out in 38 communities in France and 48 communities abroad, in a direct relationship with the French Minister of Economy. The main part of the staff is based in Station F (biggest startup incubator in Paris).\
3. What\'92s your work in French Tech Taiwan and how are you organized ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 In FT Taiwan, we are notably implicated in the APAC (Asian-Pacific) communities by a network coming from French Tech Singapore to structure the activities of the French Tech in the region.\
FT Taiwan is 1 board of 5 to 12 people, essentially entrepreneurs and some initiated to startups. 4 work daily on the project Taiwan, 1 is in charge of the night activities and events, and the others implicate time by time. We have approximately 15 people implicated every year on this or that project.\
4. Do you have any interaction with the cities and do you target any city transformations when you label French Tech ecosystems ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Very lightly: transforming the city is not part of our role. We are more concerned by linking the French startups with the city decision-makers.\
The living-lab of Taipei makes the Smart-City experimentation much more accessible but we didn\'92t had to accompany a startup dedicated to urban innovation so far. Except one company which proposes a floating solar panel system for lakes and paddy fields. They implement themselves in Taiwan rural areas rather than in Cities. We didn\'92t had any Civic-Tech actor neither, so not any direct relationship with g0v movement, but the French Office in Taipei makes much more in terms of civic-tech, they notably received this year the visit of the Liberty Living Lab (Parisian Incubator of Civic Technologies).\
We have some punctual exchanges with the TCG, we always answer to the call for event organization, which is very regular and effective in Taipei. LIve events are numerous and successful. As for our concern, we organize events to mix Taiwanese and French entrepreneurs.\
5. What\'92s the role of French Tech Taiwan for Taiwanese ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We are not a French expat meeting point: we have about 50% of Taiwanese in the French Tech Taiwan. Since the beginning of the community we have had 3 Taiwanese in the board. Our resources are Taiwanese as well, like our incubators and investors.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 We work in Taiwan in a direct relationship with the Minister of the Economy, the Minister of Science and Technology and with local medias oriented innovation and entrepreneurship like\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.bnext.com.tw/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Business Next}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://buzzorange.com/"}}{\fldrslt \ul Tech Orange}}\'a0\'85\
6. What interest the Taiwanese interested in France ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 They mostly interest in business opportunities in France they do not know. Historically the Taiwanese have much relationship with Japan and China, also with the USA. The Taiwanese are interested in Europe: they know Germany by their long-time branding strategy on \'93German Quality\'94, they know Netherlands notably by the sea freight Kaohsiung \'97 Rotterdam, and they know England by the English language. So French is not the first European country they know in Taiwan and we work on giving a better visibility among French market here.\
Furthermore, the Netherlands invest a lot in Green Technology in Taiwan, they are the first European Investor in the country. France invest few actually so in return it do not collect Taiwanese investments neither. We try to change that and open the door between France and Taiwan.\
}